 1 ¶ These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun; 
 2  Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 
 3  The sons of Judah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah; which three were born unto him of Bath-shua the Canaanitess. And Er, Judah's first-born, was wicked in the sight of the LORD; and He slew him. 
 4  And Tamar his daughter-in-law bore him Perez and Zerah. All the sons of Judah were five. 
 5  The sons of Perez: Hezron, and Hamul. 
 6  And the sons of Zerah: Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara: five of them in all. 
 7  And the sons of Carmi: Achar, the troubler of Israel, who committed a trespass concerning the devoted thing. 
 8  And the sons of Ethan: Azariah. 
 9  The sons also of Hezron, that were born unto him: Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai. 
 10  And Ram begot Amminadab; and Amminadab begot Nahshon, prince of the children of Judah; 
 11  and Nahshon begot Salma, and Salma begot Boaz; 
 12  and Boaz begot Obed, and Obed begot Jesse; 
 13  and Jesse begot his first-born Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimea the third; 
 14  Nethanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth; 
 15  Ozem the sixth, David the seventh. 
 16  And their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. And the sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, and Joab, and Asahel, three. 
 17  And Abigail bore Amasa; and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite. 
 18 ¶ And Caleb the son of Hezron begot children of Azubah his wife--and of Jerioth--and these were her sons: Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon. 
 19  And Azubah died, and Caleb took unto him Ephrath, who bore him Hur. 
 20  And Hur begot Uri, and Uri begot Bezalel. 
 21  And afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead; whom he took to wife when he was threescore years old; and she bore him Segub. 
 22  And Segub begot Jair, who had three and twenty cities in the land of Gilead. 
 23  And Geshur and Aram took Havvoth-jair from them, with Kenath, and the villages thereof, even threescore cities. All these were the sons of Machir the father of Gilead. 
 24  And after that Hezron was dead in Caleb-ephrath, then Abiah Hezron's wife bore him Ashhur the father of Tekoa. 
 25  And the sons of Jerahmeel the first-born of Hezron were Ram the first-born, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, Ahijah. 
 26  And Jerahmeel had another wife, whose name was Atarah; she was the mother of Onam. 
 27  And the sons of Ram the first-born of Jerahmeel were Maaz, and Jamin, and Eker. 
 28  And the sons of Onam were Shammai, and Jada; and the sons of Shammai: Nadab, and Abishur. 
 29  And the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail; and she bore him Ahban, and Molid. 
 30  And the sons of Nadab: Seled, and Appaim; but Seled died without children. 
 31  And the sons of Appaim: Ishi. And the sons of Ishi: Sheshan. And the sons of Sheshan: Ahlai. 
 32  And the sons of Jada the brother of Shammai: Jether, and Jonathan: and Jether died without children. 
 33  And the sons of Jonathan: Peleth, and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel. 
 34  Now Sheshan had no sons, but daughters. And Sheshan had a servant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jarha. 
 35  So Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant to wife; and she bore him Attai. 
 36  And Attai begot Nathan, and Nathan begot Zabad; 
 37  and Zabad begot Ephlal, and Ephlal begot Obed; 
 38  and Obed begot Jehu, and Jehu begot Azariah; 
 39  and Azariah begot Helez, and Helez begot Eleasah; 
 40  and Eleasah begot Sisamai, and Sisamai begot Shallum; 
 41  and Shallum begot Jekamiah, and Jekamiah begot Elishama. 
 42  And the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel were Mesha his first-born, who was the father of Ziph, and the sons of Mareshah the father of Hebron. 
 43  And the sons of Hebron: Korah, and Tappuah, and Rekem, and Shema. 
 44  And Shema begot Raham, the father of Jorkeam; and Rekem begot Shammai. 
 45  And the son of Shammai was Maon; and Maon was the father of Beth-zur. 
 46  And Ephah, Caleb's concubine, bore Haran, and Moza, and Gazez; and Haran begot Gazez. 
 47  And the sons of Jahdai: Regem, and Jotham, and Geshan, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph. 
 48  Maacah, Caleb's concubine, bore Sheber and Tirhanah. 
 49  And the wife of Shaaph the father of Madmannah bore Sheva the father of Machbenah and the father of Gibea. And the daughter of Caleb was Achsah. 
 50  These were the sons of Caleb. The sons of Hur the first-born of Ephrath: Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim; 
 51  Salma the father of Beth-lehem, Hareph the father of Beth-gader. 
 52  And Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim had sons: Haroeh, and half of the Menuhoth. 
 53  And the families of Kiriath-jearim: the Ithrites, and the Puthites, and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; of them came the Zorathites, and the Eshtaolites. 
 54  The sons of Salma: Beth-lehem, and the Netophathites, Atroth-beth-joab, and half of the Manahathites, the Zorites. 
 55  And the families of scribes that dwelt at Jabez: the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, the Sucathites. These are the Kenites that came of Hammath, the father of the house of Rechab. 





























