 1 ¶ And Benjamin begot Bela his first-born, Ashbel the second, and Aharah the third; 
 2  Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth. 
 3  And Bela had sons, Addar, and Gera, and Abihud; 
 4  and Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah; 
 5  and Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram. 
 6  And these are the sons of Ehud--these are the heads of fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Geba, and they were carried captive to Manahath; 
 7  and Naaman, and Ahijah, and Gera, were they that carried them captive--and he begot Uzza, and Ahihud. 
 8  And Shaharaim begot children in the field of Moab, after he had sent them away, to wit, Hushim and Baara his wives; 
 9  he begot of Hodesh his wife, Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcam; 
 10  and Jeuz, and Sachiah, and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of fathers' houses. 
 11  and of Hushim he begot Abitub, and Elpaal. 
 12  And the sons of Elpaal: Eber, and Misham, and Shemed, who built Ono, and Lod, with the towns thereof; 
 13  and Beriah, and Shema, who were heads of fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who put to flight the inhabitants of Gath. 
 14  And Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth; 
 15  and Zebadiah, and Arad, and Eder; 
 16  and Michael, and Ishpah, and Joha, were the sons of Beriah. 
 17  And Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hizki, and Heber; 
 18  and Ishmerai, and Izliah, and Jobab, were the sons of Elpaal. 
 19  And Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi; 
 20  and Elienai, and Zillethai, and Eliel; 
 21  and Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, were the sons of Shimei. 
 22  And Ishpan, and Ebed, and Eliel; 
 23  and Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan; 
 24  and Hananiah, and Elam, and Anthothiah; 
 25  and Iphdeiah, and Penuel, were the sons of Shashak. 
 26  And Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah; 
 27  and Jaareshiah, and Elijah, and Zichri, were the sons of Jeroham. 
 28  These were heads of fathers' houses throughout their generations, chief men; these dwelt in Jerusalem. 
 29  And in Gibeon there dwelt the father of Gibeon ,Jeiel, whose wife's name was Maacah; 
 30  and his first-born son Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab; 
 31  and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zecher. 
 32  And Mikloth begot Shimeah. And they also dwelt with their brethren in Jerusalem, over against their brethren. 
 33 ¶ And Ner begot Kish; and Kish begot Saul; and Saul begot Jonathan, and Malchi-shua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal. 
 34  And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal begot Micah. 
 35  And the sons of Micah; Pithon, and Melech, and Taarea, and Ahaz. 
 36  And Ahaz begot Jehoaddah; and Jehoaddah begot Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begot Moza; 
 37  and Moza begot Binea; Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son. 
 38  And Azel had six sons, whose names are these: Azrikam, Bocru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel. 
 39  And the sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third. 
 40  And the sons of Ulam were mighty men of valour, archers; and had many sons, and sons' sons, a hundred and fifty. All these were of the sons of Benjamin. 





























