 1 ¶ Hear this word that the LORD hath spoken against you, O children of Israel, against the whole family which I brought up out of the land of Egypt, saying: 
 2  You only have I known of all the families of the earth; therefore I will visit upon you all your iniquities. 
 3  Will two walk together, except they have agreed? 
 4  Will a lion roar in the forest, when he hath no prey? Will a young lion give forth his voice out of his den, if he have taken nothing? 
 5  Will a bird fall in a snare upon the earth, where there is no lure for it? Will a snare spring up from the ground, and have taken nothing at all? 
 6  Shall the horn be blown in a city, and the people not tremble? Shall evil befall a city, and the LORD hath not done it? 
 7  For the Lord GOD will do nothing, but He revealeth His counsel unto His servants the prophets. 
 8  The lion hath roared, who will not fear? The Lord GOD hath spoken, who can but prophesy? 
 9 ¶ Proclaim it upon the palaces at Ashdod, and upon the palaces in the land of Egypt, and say: 'Assemble yourselves upon the mountains of Samaria, and behold the great confusions therein, and the oppressions in the midst thereof.' 
 10  For they know not to do right, saith the LORD, who store up violence and robbery in their palaces. 
 11  Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD: An adversary, even round about the land! And he shall bring down thy strength from thee, and thy palaces shall be spoiled. 
 12  Thus saith the LORD: As the shepherd rescueth out of the mouth of the lion two legs, or a piece of an ear, so shall the children of Israel that dwell in Samaria escape with the corner of a couch, and the leg of a bed. 
 13  Hear ye, and testify against the house of Jacob, saith the Lord GOD, the God of hosts. 
 14  For in the day that I shall visit the transgressions of Israel upon him, I will also punish the altars of Beth-el, and the horns of the altar shall be cut off, and fall to the ground. 
 15  And I will smite the winter-house with the summer-house; and the houses of ivory shall perish, and the great houses shall have an end, saith the LORD. 





























