 1 ¶ The priests the Levites, even all the tribe of Levi, shall have no portion nor inheritance with Israel; they shall eat the offerings of the LORD made by fire, and His inheritance. 
 2  And they shall have no inheritance among their brethren; the LORD is their inheritance, as He hath spoken unto them. 
 3  And this shall be the priests' due from the people, from them that offer a sacrifice, whether it be ox or sheep, that they shall give unto the priest the shoulder, and the two cheeks, and the maw. 
 4  The first-fruits of thy corn, of thy wine, and of thine oil, and the first of the fleece of thy sheep, shalt thou give him. 
 5  For the LORD thy God hath chosen him out of all thy tribes, to stand to minister in the name of the LORD, him and his sons for ever. 
 6  And if a Levite come from any of thy gates out of all Israel, where he sojourneth, and come with all the desire of his soul unto the place which the LORD shall choose; 
 7  then he shall minister in the name of the LORD his God, as all his brethren the Levites do, who stand there before the LORD. 
 8  They shall have like portions to eat, beside that which is his due according to the fathers' houses. 
 9 ¶ When thou art come into the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee, thou shalt not learn to do after the abominations of those nations. 
 10  There shall not be found among you any one that maketh his son or his daughter to pass through the fire, one that useth divination, a soothsayer, or an enchanter, or a sorcerer, 
 11  or a charmer, or one that consulteth a ghost or a familiar spirit, or a necromancer. 
 12  For whosoever doeth these things is an abomination unto the LORD; and because of these abominations the LORD thy God is driving them out from before thee. 
 13  Thou shalt be whole-hearted with the LORD thy God. 
 14  For these nations, that thou art to dispossess, hearken unto soothsayers, and unto diviners; but as for thee, the LORD thy God hath not suffered thee so to do. 
 15 ¶ A prophet will the LORD thy God raise up unto thee, from the midst of thee, of thy brethren, like unto me; unto him ye shall hearken; 
 16  according to all that thou didst desire of the LORD thy God in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying: 'Let me not hear again the voice of the LORD my God, neither let me see this great fire any more, that I die not.' 
 17  And the LORD said unto me: 'They have well said that which they have spoken. 
 18  I will raise them up a prophet from among their brethren, like unto thee; and I will put My words in his mouth, and he shall speak unto them all that I shall command him. 
 19  And it shall come to pass, that whosoever will not hearken unto My words which he shall speak in My name, I will require it of him. 
 20  But the prophet, that shall speak a word presumptuously in My name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or that shall speak in the name of other gods, that same prophet shall die.' 
 21  And if thou say in thy heart: 'How shall we know the word which the LORD hath not spoken?' 
 22  When a prophet speaketh in the name of the LORD, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing which the LORD hath not spoken; the prophet hath spoken it presumptuously, thou shalt not be afraid of him. 





























