 1 ¶ At that time the LORD said unto me: 'Hew thee two tables of stone like unto the first, and come up unto Me into the mount; and make thee an ark of wood. 
 2  And I will write on the tables the words that were on the first tables which thou didst break, and thou shalt put them in the ark.' 
 3  So I made an ark of acacia-wood, and hewed two tables of stone like unto the first, and went up into the mount, having the two tables in my hand. 
 4  And He wrote on the tables according to the first writing, the ten words, which the LORD spoke unto you in the mount out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly; and the LORD gave them unto me. 
 5  And I turned and came down from the mount, and put the tables in the ark which I had made; and there they are, as the LORD commanded me.-- 
 6  And the children of Israel journeyed from Beeroth-benejaakan to Moserah; there Aaron died, and there he was buried; and Eleazar his son ministered in the priest's office in his stead. 
 7  From thence they journeyed unto Gudgod; and from Gudgod to Jotbah, a land of brooks of water.-- 
 8  At that time the LORD separated the tribe of Levi, to bear the ark of the covenant of the LORD, to stand before the LORD to minister unto Him, and to bless in His name, unto this day. 
 9  Wherefore Levi hath no portion nor inheritance with his brethren; the LORD is his inheritance, according as the LORD thy God spoke unto him.-- 
 10  Now I stayed in the mount, as at the first time, forty days and forty nights; and the LORD hearkened unto me that time also; the LORD would not destroy thee. 
 11  And the LORD said unto me: 'Arise, go before the people, causing them to set forward, that they may go in and possess the land, which I swore unto their fathers to give unto them.' 
 12 ¶ And now, Israel, what doth the LORD thy God require of thee, but to fear the LORD thy God, to walk in all His ways, and to love Him, and to serve the LORD thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul; 
 13  to keep for thy good the commandments of the LORD, and His statutes, which I command thee this day? 
 14  Behold, unto the LORD thy God belongeth the heaven, and the heaven of heavens, the earth, with all that therein is. 
 15  Only the LORD had a delight in thy fathers to love them, and He chose their seed after them, even you, above all peoples, as it is this day. 
 16  Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and be no more stiffnecked. 
 17  For the LORD your God, He is God of gods, and Lord of lords, the great God, the mighty, and the awful, who regardeth not persons, nor taketh reward. 
 18  He doth execute justice for the fatherless and widow, and loveth the stranger, in giving him food and raiment. 
 19  Love ye therefore the stranger; for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt. 
 20  Thou shalt fear the LORD thy God; Him shalt thou serve; and to Him shalt thou cleave, and by His name shalt thou swear. 
 21  He is thy glory, and He is thy God, that hath done for thee these great and tremendous things, which thine eyes have seen. 
 22  Thy fathers went down into Egypt with threescore and ten persons; and now the LORD thy God hath made thee as the stars of heaven for multitude. 





























