 1 ¶ To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven: 
 2  A time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted; 
 3  A time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up; 
 4  A time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance; 
 5  A time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing; 
 6  A time to seek, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away; 
 7  A time to rend, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak; 
 8  A time to love, and a time to hate; a time for war, and a time for peace. 
 9  What profit hath he that worketh in that he laboureth? 
 10  I have seen the task which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised therewith. 
 11 ¶ He hath made every thing beautiful in its time; also He hath set the world in their heart, yet so that man cannot find out the work that God hath done from the beginning even to the end. 
 12  I know that there is nothing better for them, than to rejoice, and to get pleasure so long as they live. 
 13  But also that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy pleasure for all his labour, is the gift of God. 
 14  I know that, whatsoever God doeth, it shall be for ever; nothing can be added to it, nor any thing taken from it; and God hath so made it, that men should fear before Him. 
 15  That which is hath been long ago, and that which is to be hath already been; and God seeketh that which is pursued. 
 16 ¶ And moreover I saw under the sun, in the place of justice, that wickedness was there; and in the place of righteousness, that wickedness was there. 
 17  I said in my heart: 'The righteous and the wicked God will judge; for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work.' 
 18  I said in my heart: 'It is because of the sons of men, that God may sift them, and that they may see that they themselves are but as beasts.' 
 19  For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts; even one thing befalleth them; as the one dieth, so dieth the other; yea, they have all one breath; so that man hath no pre-eminence above a beast; for all is vanity. 
 20  All go unto one place; all are of the dust, and all return to dust. 
 21  Who knoweth the spirit of man whether it goeth upward, and the spirit of the beast whether it goeth downward to the earth? 
 22  Wherefore I perceived that there is nothing better, than that a man should rejoice in his works; for that is his portion; for who shall bring him to see what shall be after him? 





























