 1  And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying: 
 2  'On the first day of the first month shalt thou rear up the tabernacle of the tent of meeting. 
 3  And thou shalt put therein the ark of the testimony, and thou shalt screen the ark with the veil. 
 4  And thou shalt bring in the table, and set in order the bread that is upon it; and thou shalt bring in the candlestick, and light the lamps thereof. 
 5  And thou shalt set the golden altar for incense before the ark of the testimony, and put the screen of the door to the tabernacle. 
 6  And thou shalt set the altar of burnt-offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting. 
 7  And thou shalt set the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar, and shalt put water therein. 
 8  And thou shalt set up the court round about, and hang up the screen of the gate of the court. 
 9  And thou shalt take the anointing oil, and anoint the tabernacle, and all that is therein, and shalt hallow it, and all the furniture thereof; and it shall be holy. 
 10  And thou shalt anoint the altar of burnt-offering, and all its vessels, and sanctify the altar; and the altar shall be most holy. 
 11  And thou shalt anoint the laver and its base, and sanctify it. 
 12  And thou shalt bring Aaron and his sons unto the door of the tent of meeting, and shalt wash them with water. 
 13  And thou shalt put upon Aaron the holy garments; and thou shalt anoint him, and sanctify him, that he may minister unto Me in the priest's office. 
 14  And thou shalt bring his sons, and put tunics upon them. 
 15  And thou shalt anoint them, as thou didst anoint their father, that they may minister unto Me in the priest's office; and their anointing shall be to them for an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations.' 
 16  Thus did Moses; according to all that the LORD commanded him, so did he. 
 17  And it came to pass in the first month in the second year, on the first day of the month, that the tabernacle was reared up. 
 18  And Moses reared up the tabernacle, and laid its sockets, and set up the boards thereof, and put in the bars thereof, and reared up its pillars. 
 19  And he spread the tent over the tabernacle, and put the covering of the tent above upon it; as the LORD commanded Moses. 
 20  And he took and put the testimony into the ark, and set the staves on the ark, and put the ark-cover above upon the ark. 
 21  And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and set up the veil of the screen, and screened the ark of the testimony; as the LORD commanded Moses. 
 22  And he put the table in the tent of meeting, upon the side of the tabernacle northward, without the veil. 
 23  And he set a row of bread in order upon it before the LORD; as the LORD commanded Moses. 
 24  And he put the candlestick in the tent of meeting, over against the table, on the side of the tabernacle southward. 
 25  And he lighted the lamps before the LORD; as the LORD commanded Moses. 
 26  And he put the golden altar in the tent of meeting before the veil; 
 27  and he burnt thereon incense of sweet spices; as the LORD commanded Moses. 
 28  And he put the screen of the door to the tabernacle. 
 29  And the altar of burnt-offering he set at the door of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, and offered upon it the burnt-offering and the meal-offering; as the LORD commanded Moses. 
 30  And he set the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water therein, wherewith to wash; 
 31  that Moses and Aaron and his sons might wash their hands and their feet thereat; 
 32  when they went into the tent of meeting, and when they came near unto the altar, they should wash; as the LORD commanded Moses. 
 33  And he reared up the court round about the tabernacle and the altar, and set up the screen of the gate of the court. So Moses finished the work. 
 34  Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle. 
 35  And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of meeting, because the cloud abode thereon, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle.-- 
 36  And whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the children of Israel went onward, throughout all their journeys. 
 37  But if the cloud was not taken up, then they journeyed not till the day that it was taken up. 
 38  For the cloud of the LORD was upon the tabernacle by day, and there was fire therein by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeys.-- 
 1  THE LORD called unto Moses, and spoke unto him out of the tent of meeting, saying: 
 2  Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them: When any man of you bringeth an offering unto the LORD, ye shall bring your offering of the cattle, even of the herd or of the flock. 
 3  If his offering be a burnt-offering of the herd, he shall offer it a male without blemish; he shall bring it to the door of the tent of meeting, that he may be accepted before the LORD. 
 4  And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the burnt-offering; and it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him. 
 5  And he shall kill the bullock before the LORD; and Aaron's sons, the priests, shall present the blood, and dash the blood round about against the altar that is at the door of the tent of meeting. 
 6  And he shall flay the burnt-offering, and cut it into its pieces. 
 7  And the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire upon the altar, and lay wood in order upon the fire. 
 8  And Aaron's sons, the priests, shall lay the pieces, and the head, and the suet, in order upon the wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar; 
 9  but its inwards and its legs shall he wash with water; and the priest shall make the whole smoke on the altar, for a burnt-offering, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD. 
 10  And if his offering be of the flock, whether of the sheep, or of the goats, for a burnt-offering, he shall offer it a male without blemish. 
 11  And he shall kill it on the side of the altar northward before the LORD; and Aaron's sons, the priests, shall dash its blood against the altar round about. 
 12  And he shall cut it into its pieces; and the priest shall lay them, with its head and its suet, in order on the wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar. 
 13  But the inwards and the legs shall he wash with water; and the priest shall offer the whole, and make it smoke upon the altar; it is a burnt-offering, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD. 
 14  And if his offering to the LORD be a burnt-offering of fowls, then he shall bring his offering of turtle-doves, or of young pigeons. 
 15  And the priest shall bring it unto the altar, and pinch off its head, and make it smoke on the altar; and the blood thereof shall be drained out on the side of the altar. 
 16  And he shall take away its crop with the feathers thereof, and cast it beside the altar on the east part, in the place of the ashes. 
 17  And he shall rend it by the wings thereof, but shall not divide it asunder; and the priest shall make it smoke upon the altar, upon the wood that is upon the fire; it is a burnt-offering, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD. 





























