 1 ¶ And the LORD said unto Moses: 'Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharaoh; for by a strong hand shall he let them go, and by a strong hand shall he drive them out of his land.' 
 2  And God spoke unto Moses, and said unto him: 'I am the LORD; 
 3  and I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, as God Almighty, but by My name Yud-Kay-Vav-Kay* I made Me not known to them. [*"Yud-Kay-Vav-Kay" is the Yiddish circumlocution for the spelling of the tetragrammaton. In this verse, the original Jewish Publication Society text uses the Hebrew letters that correspond to the actual spelling of the name.]
 4  And I have also established My covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their sojournings, wherein they sojourned. 
 5  And moreover I have heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage; and I have remembered My covenant. 
 6  Wherefore say unto the children of Israel: I am the LORD, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from their bondage, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm, and with great judgments; 
 7  and I will take you to Me for a people, and I will be to you a God; and ye shall know that I am the LORD your God, who brought you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. 
 8  And I will bring you in unto the land, concerning which I lifted up My hand to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will give it you for a heritage: I am the LORD.' 
 9  And Moses spoke so unto the children of Israel; but they hearkened not unto Moses for impatience of spirit, and for cruel bondage. 
 10 ¶ And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying: 
 11  'Go in, speak unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land.' 
 12  And Moses spoke before the LORD, saying: 'Behold, the children of Israel have not hearkened unto me; how then shall Pharaoh hear me, who am of uncircumcised lips?' 
 13  And the LORD spoke unto Moses and unto Aaron, and gave them a charge unto the children of Israel, and unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt. 
 14 ¶ These are the heads of their fathers' houses: the sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi. These are the families of Reuben. 
 15  And the sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman. These are the families of Simeon. 
 16  And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon and Kohath, and Merari. And the years of the life of Levi were a hundred thirty and seven years. 
 17  The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, according to their families. 
 18  And the sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel. And the years of the life of Kohath were a hundred thirty and three years. 
 19  And the sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their generations. 
 20  And Amram took him Jochebed his father's sister to wife; and she bore him Aaron and Moses. And the years of the life of Amram were a hundred and thirty and seven years. 
 21  And the sons of Izhar: Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri. 
 22  And the sons of Uzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri. 
 23  And Aaron took him Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Nahshon, to wife; and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. 
 24  And the sons of Korah: Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph; these are the families of the Korahites. 
 25  And Eleazar Aaron's son took him one of the daughters of Putiel to wife; and she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites according to their families. 
 26  These are that Aaron and Moses, to whom the LORD said: 'Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their hosts.' 
 27  These are they that spoke to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt. These are that Moses and Aaron. 
 28  And it came to pass on the day when the LORD spoke unto Moses in the land of Egypt, 
 29  that the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying: 'I am the LORD; speak thou unto Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I speak unto thee.' 
 30  And Moses said before the LORD: 'Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh hearken unto me?' 





























