 1  Thou shalt not utter a false report; put not thy hand with the wicked to be an unrighteous witness. 
 2  Thou shalt not follow a multitude to do evil; neither shalt thou bear witness in a cause to turn aside after a multitude to pervert justice; 
 3  neither shalt thou favour a poor man in his cause. 
 4  If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt surely bring it back to him again. 
 5  If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under its burden, thou shalt forbear to pass by him; thou shalt surely release it with him. 
 6  Thou shalt not wrest the judgment of thy poor in his cause. 
 7  Keep thee far from a false matter; and the innocent and righteous slay thou not; for I will not justify the wicked. 
 8  And thou shalt take no gift; for a gift blindeth them that have sight, and perverteth the words of the righteous. 
 9  And a stranger shalt thou not oppress; for ye know the heart of a stranger, seeing ye were strangers in the land of Egypt. 
 10  And six years thou shalt sow thy land, and gather in the increase thereof; 
 11  but the seventh year thou shalt let it rest and lie fallow, that the poor of thy people may eat; and what they leave the beast of the field shall eat. In like manner thou shalt deal with thy vineyard, and with thy oliveyard. 
 12  Six days thou shalt do thy work, but on the seventh day thou shalt rest; that thine ox and thine ass may have rest, and the son of thy handmaid, and the stranger, may be refreshed. 
 13  And in all things that I have said unto you take ye heed; and make no mention of the name of other gods, neither let it be heard out of thy mouth. 
 14  Three times thou shalt keep a feast unto Me in the year. 
 15  The feast of unleavened bread shalt thou keep; seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee, at the time appointed in the month Abib--for in it thou camest out from Egypt; and none shall appear before Me empty; 
 16  and the feast of harvest, the first-fruits of thy labours, which thou sowest in the field; and the feast of ingathering, at the end of the year, when thou gatherest in thy labours out of the field. 
 17  Three times in the year all thy males shall appear before the Lord GOD. 
 18  Thou shalt not offer the blood of My sacrifice with leavened bread; neither shall the fat of My feast remain all night until the morning. 
 19  The choicest first-fruits of thy land thou shalt bring into the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in its mother's milk. 
 20  Behold, I send an angel before thee, to keep thee by the way, and to bring thee into the place which I have prepared. 
 21  Take heed of him, and hearken unto his voice; be not rebellious against him; for he will not pardon your transgression; for My name is in him. 
 22  But if thou shalt indeed hearken unto his voice, and do all that I speak; then I will be an enemy unto thine enemies, and an adversary unto thine adversaries. 
 23  For Mine angel shall go before thee, and bring thee in unto the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Canaanite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite; and I will cut them off. 
 24  Thou shalt not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do after their doings; but thou shalt utterly overthrow them, and break in pieces their pillars. 
 25  And ye shall serve the LORD your God, and He will bless thy bread, and thy water; and I will take sickness away from the midst of thee. 
 26  None shall miscarry, nor be barren, in thy land; the number of thy days I will fulfil. 
 27  I will send My terror before thee, and will discomfit all the people to whom thou shalt come, and I will make all thine enemies turn their backs unto thee. 
 28  And I will send the hornet before thee, which shall drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before thee. 
 29  I will not drive them out from before thee in one year, lest the land become desolate, and the beasts of the field multiply against thee. 
 30  By little and little I will drive them out from before thee, until thou be increased, and inherit the land. 
 31  And I will set thy border from the Red Sea even unto the sea of the Philistines, and from the wilderness unto the River; for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand; and thou shalt drive them out before thee. 
 32  Thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor with their gods. 
 33  They shall not dwell in thy land--lest they make thee sin against Me, for thou wilt serve their gods--for they will be a snare unto thee. 













 1  And unto Moses He said: 'Come up unto the LORD, thou, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel; and worship ye afar off; 
 2  and Moses alone shall come near unto the LORD; but they shall not come near; neither shall the people go up with him.' 
 3  And Moses came and told the people all the words of the LORD, and all the ordinances; and all the people answered with one voice, and said: 'All the words which the Lord hath spoken will we do.' 
 4  And Moses wrote all the words of the LORD, and rose up early in the morning, and builded an altar under the mount, and twelve pillars, according to the twelve tribes of Israel. 
 5  And he sent the young men of the children of Israel, who offered burnt-offerings, and sacrificed peace-offerings of oxen unto the LORD. 
 6  And Moses took half of the blood, and put it in basins; and half of the blood he dashed against the altar. 
 7  And he took the book of the covenant, and read in the hearing of the people; and they said: 'All that the LORD hath spoken will we do, and obey.' 
 8  And Moses took the blood, and sprinkled it on the people, and said: 'Behold the blood of the covenant, which the LORD hath made with you in agreement with all these words.' 
 9  Then went up Moses, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel; 
 10  and they saw the God of Israel; and there was under His feet the like of a paved work of sapphire stone, and the like of the very heaven for clearness. 
 11  And upon the nobles of the children of Israel He laid not His hand; and they beheld God, and did eat and drink. 
 12  And the LORD said unto Moses: 'Come up to Me into the mount and be there; and I will give thee the tables of stone, and the law and the commandment, which I have written, that thou mayest teach them.' 
 13  And Moses rose up, and Joshua his minister; and Moses went up into the mount of God. 
 14  And unto the elders he said: 'Tarry ye here for us, until we come back unto you; and, behold, Aaron and Hur are with you; whosoever hath a cause, let him come near unto them.' 
 15  And Moses went up into the mount, and the cloud covered the mount. 
 16  And the glory of the LORD abode upon mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days; and the seventh day He called unto Moses out of the midst of the cloud. 
 17  And the appearance of the glory of the LORD was like devouring fire on the top of the mount in the eyes of the children of Israel. 
 18  And Moses entered into the midst of the cloud, and went up into the mount; and Moses was in the mount forty days and forty nights. 













































