 1 ¶ Then I looked, and, behold, upon the firmament that was over the head of the cherubim, there appeared above them as it were a sapphire stone, as the appearance of the likeness of a throne. 
 2  And He spoke unto the man clothed in linen, and said: 'Go in between the wheelwork, even under the cherub, and fill both thy hands with coals of fire from between the cherubim, and dash them against the city.' And he went in in my sight. 
 3  Now the cherubim stood on the right side of the house, when the man went in; and the cloud filled the inner court. 
 4  And the glory of the LORD mounted up from the cherub to the threshold of the house; and the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of the LORD'S glory. 
 5  And the sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard even to the outer court, as the voice of God Almighty when He speaketh. 
 6  And it came to pass, when He commanded the man clothed in linen, saying: 'Take fire from between the wheelwork, from between the cherubim', that he went in, and stood beside a wheel. 
 7  And the cherub stretched forth his hand from between the cherubim unto the fire that was between the cherubim, and took thereof, and put it into the hands of him that was clothed in linen, who took it and went out. 
 8 ¶ And there appeared in the cherubim the form of a man's hand under their wings. 
 9  And I looked, and behold four wheels beside the cherubim, one wheel beside one cherub, and another wheel beside another cherub; and the appearance of the wheels was as the colour of a beryl stone. 
 10  And as for their appearance, they four had one likeness, as if a wheel had been within a wheel. 
 11  When they went, they went toward their four sides; they turned not as they went, but to the place whither the head looked they followed it; they turned not as they went. 
 12  And their whole body, and their backs, and their hands, and their wings, and the wheels were full of eyes round about, even the wheels that they four had. 
 13  As for the wheels, they were called in my hearing The wheelwork. 
 14  And every one had four faces: the first face was the face of the cherub, and the second face was the face of a man, and the third the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle. 
 15  And the cherubim mounted up--this is the living creature that I saw by the river Chebar. 
 16  And when the cherubim went, the wheels went beside them; and when the cherubim lifted up their wings to mount up from the earth, the same wheels also turned not from beside them. 
 17  When they stood, these stood, and when they mounted up, these mounted up with them; for the spirit of the living creature was in them. 
 18  And the glory of the LORD went forth from off the threshold of the house, and stood over the cherubim. 
 19  And the cherubim lifted up their wings, and mounted up from the earth in my sight when they went forth, and the wheels beside them; and they stood at the door of the east gate of the LORD'S house; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above. 
 20  This is the living creature that I saw under the God of Israel by the river Chebar; and I knew that they were cherubim. 
 21  Every one had four faces apiece, and every one four wings; and the likeness of the hands of a man was under their wings. 
 22  And as for the likeness of their faces, they were the faces which I saw by the river Chebar, their appearances and themselves; they went every one straight forward. 





























