 1 ¶ Rejoice not, O Israel, unto exultation, like the peoples, for thou hast gone astray from thy God, thou hast loved a harlot's hire upon every corn-floor. 
 2  The threshing-floor and the wine-press shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail her. 
 3  They shall not dwell in the LORD'S land; but Ephraim shall return to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean food in Assyria. 
 4  They shall not pour out wine-offerings to the LORD, neither shall they be pleasing unto Him; their sacrifices shall be unto them as the bread of mourners, all that eat thereof shall be polluted; for their bread shall be for their appetite, it shall not come into the house of the LORD. 
 5  What will ye do in the day of the appointed season, and in the day of the feast of the LORD? 
 6  For, lo, they are gone away from destruction, yet Egypt shall gather them up, Memphis shall bury them; their precious treasures of silver, nettles shall possess them, thorns shall be in their tents. 
 7 ¶ The days of visitation are come, the days of recompense are come, Israel shall know it. The prophet is a fool, the man of the spirit is mad! For the multitude of thine iniquity, the enmity is great. 
 8  Ephraim is a watchman with my God; as for the prophet, a fowler's snare is in all his ways, and enmity in the house of his God. 
 9  They have deeply corrupted themselves, as in the days of Gibeah; He will remember their iniquity, He will punish their sins. 
 10  I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness, I saw your fathers as the first-ripe in the fig-tree at her first season; but so soon as they came to Baal-peor, they separated themselves unto the shameful thing, and became detestable like that which they loved. 
 11 ¶ As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird; there shall be no birth, and none with child, and no conception. 
 12  Yea, though they bring up their children, yet will I bereave them, that there be not a man left; yea, woe also to them when I depart from them! 
 13  Ephraim, like as I have seen Tyre, is planted in a pleasant place; but Ephraim shall bring forth his children to the slayer. 
 14  Give them, O LORD, whatsoever Thou wilt give; give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts. 
 15  All their wickedness is in Gilgal, for there I hated them; because of the wickedness of their doings I will drive them out of My house; I will love them no more, all their princes are rebellious. 
 16  Ephraim is smitten, their root is dried up, they shall bear no fruit; yea, though they bring forth, yet will I slay the beloved fruit of their womb. 
 17  My God will cast them away, because they did not hearken unto Him; and they shall be wanderers among the nations. 





























