 1 ¶ Israel was a luxuriant vine, which put forth fruit freely: as his fruit increased, he increased his altars; the more goodly his land was, the more goodly were his pillars. 
 2  Their heart is divided; now shall they bear their guilt; He will break down their altars, He will spoil their pillars. 
 3  Surely now shall they say: 'We have no king; for we feared not the LORD; and the king, what can he do for us?' 
 4  They speak words, they swear falsely, they make covenants; thus judgment springeth up as hemlock in the furrows of the field. 
 5  The inhabitants of Samaria shall be in dread for the calves of Beth-aven; for the people thereof shall mourn over it, and the priests thereof shall tremble for it, for its glory, because it is departed from it. 
 6  It also shall be carried unto Assyria, for a present to King Contentious; Ephraim shall receive shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his own counsel. 
 7  As for Samaria, her king is cut off, as foam upon the water. 
 8  The high places also of Aven shall be destroyed, even the sin of Israel. The thorn and the thistle shall come up on their altars; and they shall say to the mountains: 'Cover us', and to the hills: 'Fall on us.' 
 9 ¶ From the days of Gibeah thou hast sinned, O Israel; there they stood; no battle was to overtake them in Gibeah, nor the children of arrogancy. 
 10  When it is My desire, I will chastise them; and the peoples shall be gathered against them, when they are yoked to their two rings. 
 11  And Ephraim is a heifer well broken, that loveth to thresh, and I have passed over upon her fair neck; I will make Ephraim to ride, Judah shall plow, Jacob shall break his clods. 
 12  Sow to yourselves according to righteousness, reap according to mercy, break up your fallow ground; for it is time to seek the LORD, till He come and cause righteousness to rain upon you. 
 13  Ye have plowed wickedness, ye have reaped iniquity, ye have eaten the fruit of lies; for thou didst trust in thy way, in the multitude of thy mighty men. 
 14  Therefore shall a tumult arise among thy hosts, and all thy fortresses shall be spoiled, as Shalman spoiled Beth-arbel in the day of battle; the mother was dashed in pieces with her children. 
 15  So hath Beth-el done unto you because of your great wickedness; at daybreak is the king of Israel utterly cut off. 





























