 1 ¶ For, behold, the Lord, the LORD of hosts, doth take away from Jerusalem and from Judah stay and staff, every stay of bread, and every stay of water; 
 2  The mighty man, and the man of war; the judge, and the prophet, and the diviner, and the elder; 
 3  The captain of fifty, and the man of rank, and the counsellor, and the cunning charmer, and the skilful enchanter. 
 4  And I will give children to be their princes, and babes shall rule over them. 
 5  And the people shall oppress one another, every man his fellow, and every man his neighbour; the child shall behave insolently against the aged, and the base against the honourable, 
 6  For a man shall take hold of his brother of the house of his father: 'Thou hast a mantle, be thou our ruler, and let this ruin be under thy hand.' 
 7  In that day shall he swear, saying: 'I will not be a healer; for in my house is neither bread nor a mantle; ye shall not make me ruler of a people.' 
 8  For Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is fallen; because their tongue and their doings are against the LORD, to provoke the eyes of His glory. 
 9 ¶ The show of their countenance doth witness against them; and they declare their sin as Sodom, they hide it not. Woe unto their soul! for they have wrought evil unto themselves. 
 10  Say ye of the righteous, that it shall be well with him; for they shall eat the fruit of their doings. 
 11  Woe unto the wicked! it shall be ill with him; for the work of his hands shall be done to him. 
 12  As for My people, a babe is their master, and women rule over them. O My people, they that lead thee cause thee to err, and destroy the way of thy paths. 
 13  The LORD standeth up to plead, and standeth to judge the peoples. 
 14  The LORD will enter into judgment with the elders of His people, and the princes thereof: 'It is ye that have eaten up the vineyard; the spoil of the poor is in your houses; 
 15  What mean ye that ye crush My people, and grind the face of the poor?' saith the Lord, the GOD of hosts. 
 16 ¶ Moreover the LORD said: because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched-forth necks and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with their feet; 
 17  Therefore the Lord will smite with a scab the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and the LORD will lay bare their secret parts. 
 18  In that day the Lord will take away the bravery of their anklets, and the fillets, and the crescents; 
 19  the pendants, and the bracelets, and the veils; 
 20  the headtires, and the armlets, and the sashes, and the corselets, and the amulets; 
 21  the rings, and the nose-jewels; 
 22  the aprons, and the mantelets, and the cloaks, and the girdles; 
 23  and the gauze robes, and the fine linen, and the turbans, and the mantles. 
 24  And it shall come to pass, that instead of sweet spices there shall be rottenness; and instead of a girdle rags; and instead of curled hair baldness; and instead of a stomacher a girding of sackcloth; branding instead of beauty. 
 25  Thy men shall fall by the sword, and thy mighty in the war. 
 26  And her gates shall lament and mourn; and utterly bereft she shall sit upon the ground. 





























