 1 ¶ Lo, mine eye hath seen all this, mine ear hath heard and understood it. 
 2  What ye know, do I know also; I am not inferior unto you. 
 3  Notwithstanding I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to reason with God. 
 4  But ye are plasterers of lies, ye are all physicians of no value. 
 5  Oh that ye would altogether hold your peace! and it would be your wisdom. 
 6  Hear now my reasoning, and hearken to the pleadings of my lips. 
 7  Will ye speak unrighteously for God, and talk deceitfully for Him? 
 8  Will ye show Him favour? Will ye contend for God? 
 9  Would it be good that He should search you out? Or as one mocketh a man, will ye mock Him? 
 10  He will surely reprove you, if ye do secretly show favour. 
 11  Shall not His majesty terrify you, and His dread fall upon you? 
 12  Your memorials shall be like unto ashes, your eminences to eminences of clay. 
 13 ¶ Hold your peace, let me alone, that I may speak, and let come on me what will. 
 14  Wherefore? I will take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in my hand. 
 15  Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him; but I will argue my ways before Him. 
 16  This also shall be my salvation, that a hypocrite cannot come before Him. 
 17  Hear diligently my speech, and let my declaration be in your ears. 
 18  Behold now, I have ordered my cause; I know that I shall be justified. 
 19  Who is he that will contend with me? For then would I hold my peace and die. 
 20  Only do not two things unto me, then will I not hide myself from Thee: 
 21  Withdraw Thy hand far from me; and let not Thy terror make me afraid. 
 22  Then call Thou, and I will answer; or let me speak, and answer Thou me. 
 23 ¶ How many are mine iniquities and sins? Make me to know my transgression and my sin. 
 24  Wherefore hidest Thou Thy face, and holdest me for Thine enemy? 
 25  Wilt Thou harass a driven leaf? And wilt Thou pursue the dry stubble? 
 26  That Thou shouldest write bitter things against me, and make me to inherit the iniquities of my youth. 
 27  Thou puttest my feet also in the stocks, and lookest narrowly unto all my paths; Thou drawest Thee a line about the soles of my feet; 
 28  Though I am like a wine-skin that consumeth, like a garment that is moth-eaten. 





























