 1 ¶ Man that is born of a woman is of few days, and full of trouble. 
 2  He cometh forth like a flower, and withereth; he fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not. 
 3  And dost Thou open Thine eyes upon such a one, and bringest me into judgment with Thee? 
 4  Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? not one. 
 5  Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months is with Thee, and Thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass; 
 6  Look away from him, that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as a hireling, his day. 
 7 ¶ For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease. 
 8  Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock thereof die in the ground; 
 9  Yet through the scent of water it will bud, and put forth boughs like a plant. 
 10  But man dieth, and lieth low; yea, man perisheth, and where is he? 
 11  As the waters fail from the sea, and the river is drained dry; 
 12  So man lieth down and riseth not; till the heavens be no more, they shall not awake, nor be roused out of their sleep. 
 13  Oh that Thou wouldest hide me in the nether-world, that Thou wouldest keep me secret, until Thy wrath be past, that Thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!-- 
 14  If a man die, may he live again? All the days of my service would I wait, till my relief should come-- 
 15  Thou wouldest call, and I would answer Thee; Thou wouldest have a desire to the work of Thy hands. 
 16 ¶ But now Thou numberest my steps, Thou dost not even wait for my sin; 
 17  My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and Thou heapest up mine iniquity. 
 18  And surely the mountain falling crumbleth away, and the rock is removed out of its place; 
 19  The waters wear the stones; the overflowings thereof wash away the dust of the earth; so Thou destroyest the hope of man. 
 20  Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth; Thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away. 
 21  His sons come to honour, and he knoweth it not; and they are brought low, but he regardeth them not. 
 22  But his flesh grieveth for him, and his soul mourneth over him. 





























