 1  Then Job answered and said: 
 2  Hear diligently my speech; and let this be your consolations. 
 3  Suffer me, that I may speak; and after that I have spoken, mock on. 
 4  As for me, is my complaint to man? Or why should I not be impatient? 
 5  Turn unto me, and be astonished, and lay your hand upon your mouth. 
 6  Even when I remember I am affrighted, and horror hath taketh hold on my flesh. 
 7  Wherefore do the wicked live, become old, yea, wax mighty in power? 
 8  Their seed is established in their sight with them, and their offspring before their eyes. 
 9  Their houses are safe, without fear, neither is the rod of God upon them. 
 10  Their bull gendereth, and faileth not; their cow calveth, and casteth not her calf. 
 11  They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their children dance. 
 12  They sing to the timbrel and harp, and rejoice at the sound of the pipe. 
 13  They spend their days in prosperity, and peacefully they go down to the grave. 
 14  Yet they said unto God: 'Depart from us; for we desire not the knowledge of Thy ways. 
 15  What is the Almighty, that we should serve Him? And what profit should we have, if we pray unto Him?'-- 
 16  Lo, their prosperity is not in their hand; the counsel of the wicked is far from me. 
 17  How oft is it that the lamp of the wicked is put out? that their calamity cometh upon them? that He distributeth pains in His anger? 
 18  That they are as stubble before the wind, and as chaff that the storm stealeth away? 
 19  'God layeth up his iniquity for his children!' --let Him recompense it unto himself, that he may know it. 
 20  Let his own eyes see his destruction, and let him drink of the wrath of the Almighty. 
 21  For what pleasure hath he in his house after him? seeing the number of his months is determined. 
 22  Shall any teach God knowledge? seeing it is He that judgeth those that are high. 
 23  One dieth in his full strength, being wholly at ease and quiet; 
 24  His pails are full of milk, and the marrow of his bones is moistened. 
 25  And another dieth in bitterness of soul, and hath never tasted of good. 
 26  They lie down alike in the dust, and the worm covereth them. 
 27  Behold, I know your thoughts, and the devices which ye wrongfully imagine against me. 
 28  For ye say: 'Where is the house of the prince? And where is the tent wherein the wicked dwelt?' 
 29  Have ye not asked them that go by the way; and will ye misdeem their tokens, 
 30  That the evil man is reserved to the day of calamity, that they are led forth to the day of wrath? 
 31  But who shall declare his way to his face? And who shall repay him what he hath done? 
 32  For he is borne to the grave, and watch is kept over his tomb. 
 33  The clods of the valley are sweet unto him, and all men draw after him, as there were innumerable before him. 
 34  How then comfort ye me in vain? And as for your answers, there remaineth only faithlessness? 





























