 1 ¶ So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes. 
 2  Then was kindled the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the family of Ram; against Job was his wrath kindled, because he justified himself rather than God. 
 3  Also against his three friends was his wrath kindled, because they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job. 
 4  Now Elihu had waited to speak unto Job, because they were older than he. 
 5  And when Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, his wrath was kindled. 
 6 ¶ And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said: I am young, and ye are very old; wherefore I held back, and durst not declare you mine opinion. 
 7  I said: 'Days should speak, and multitude of years should teach wisdom.' 
 8  But it is a spirit in man, and the breath of the Almighty, that giveth them understanding. 
 9  It is not the great that are wise, nor the aged that discern judgment. 
 10  Therefore I say: 'Hearken to me; I also will declare mine opinion.' 
 11  Behold, I waited for your words, I listened for your reasons, whilst ye searched out what to say. 
 12  Yea, I attended unto you, and, behold, there was none that convinced Job, or that answered his words, among you. 
 13  Beware lest ye say: 'We have found wisdom; God may vanquish him, not man!' 
 14  For he hath not directed his words against me; neither will I answer him with your speeches. 
 15 ¶ They are amazed, they answer no more; words are departed from them. 
 16  And shall I wait, because they speak not, because they stand still, and answer no more? 
 17  I also will answer my part, I also will declare mine opinion. 
 18  For I am full of words; the spirit within me constraineth me. 
 19  Behold, mine inwards are as wine which hath no vent; like new wine-skins which are ready to burst. 
 20  I will speak, that I may find relief; I will open my lips and answer. 
 21  Let me not, I pray you, respect any man's person; neither will I give flattering titles unto any man. 
 22  For I know not to give flattering titles; else would my Maker soon take me away. 





























