 1  Howbeit, Job, I pray thee, hear my speech, and hearken to all my words. 
 2  Behold now, I have opened my mouth, my tongue hath spoken in my mouth. 
 3  My words shall utter the uprightness of my heart; and that which my lips know they shall speak sincerely. 
 4  The spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty given me life. 
 5  If thou canst, answer thou me, set thy words in order before me, stand forth. 
 6  Behold, I am toward God even as thou art; I also am formed out of the clay. 
 7  Behold, my terror shall not make thee afraid, neither shall my pressure be heavy upon thee. 
 8  Surely thou hast spoken in my hearing, and I have heard the voice of thy words; 
 9  'I am clean, without transgression, I am innocent, neither is there iniquity in me; 
 10  Behold, He findeth occasions against me, He counteth me for His enemy; 
 11  He putteth my feet in the stocks, He marketh all my paths.' 
 12  Behold, I answer thee: In this thou art not right, that God is too great for man; 
 13  Why hast thou striven against Him? seeing that He will not answer any of his words. 
 14  For God speaketh in one way, yea in two, though man perceiveth it not. 
 15  In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falleth upon men, in slumberings upon the bed; 
 16  Then He openeth the ears of men, and by their chastisement sealeth the decree, 
 17  That men may put away their purpose, and that He may hide pride from man; 
 18  That He may keep back his soul from the pit, and his life from perishing by the sword. 
 19  He is chastened also with pain upon his bed, and all his bones grow stiff; 
 20  So that his life maketh him to abhor bread, and his soul dainty food. 
 21  His flesh is consumed away, that it cannot be seen; and his bones corrode to unsightliness. 
 22  Yea, his soul draweth near unto the pit, and his life to the destroyers. 
 23  If there be for him an angel, an intercessor, one among a thousand, to vouch for a man's uprightness; 
 24  Then He is gracious unto him, and saith: 'Deliver him from going down to the pit, I have found a ransom.' 
 25  His flesh is tenderer than a child's; he returneth to the days of his youth; 
 26  He prayeth unto God, and He is favourable unto him; so that he seeth His face with joy; and He restoreth unto man his righteousness. 
 27  He cometh before men, and saith: 'I have sinned, and perverted that which was right, and it profited me not.' 
 28  So He redeemeth his soul from going into the pit, and his life beholdeth the light. 
 29  Lo, all these things doth God work, twice, yea thrice, with a man, 
 30  To bring back his soul from the pit, that he may be enlightened with the light of the living. 
 31  Mark well, O Job, hearken unto me; hold thy peace, and I will speak. 
 32  If thou hast any thing to say, answer me; speak, for I desire to justify thee. 
 33  If not, hearken thou unto me; hold thy peace, and I will teach thee wisdom. 





























