 1  I made a covenant with mine eyes; how then should I look upon a maid? 
 2  For what would be the portion of God from above, and the heritage of the Almighty from on high? 
 3  Is it not calamity to the unrighteous, and disaster to the workers of iniquity? 
 4  Doth not He see my ways, and count all my steps? 
 5  If I have walked with vanity, and my foot hath hasted to deceit-- 
 6  Let me be weighed in a just balance, that God may know mine integrity-- 
 7  If my step hath turned out of the way, and my heart walked after mine eyes, and if any spot hath cleaved to my hands; 
 8  Then let me sow, and let another eat; yea, let the produce of my field be rooted out. 
 9  If my heart have been enticed unto a woman, and I have lain in wait at my neighbour's door; 
 10  Then let my wife grind unto another, and let others bow down upon her. 
 11  For that were a heinous crime; yea, it were an iniquity to be punished by the judges. 
 12  For it is a fire that consumeth unto destruction, and would root out all mine increase. 
 13  If I did despise the cause of my man-servant, or of my maid-servant, when they contended with me-- 
 14  What then shall I do when God riseth up? And when He remembereth, what shall I answer Him? 
 15  Did not He that made me in the womb make him? And did not One fashion us in the womb? 
 16  If I have withheld aught that the poor desired, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail; 
 17  Or have eaten my morsel myself alone, and the fatherless hath not eaten thereof-- 
 18  Nay, from my youth he grew up with me as with a father, and I have been her guide from my mother's womb. 
 19  If I have seen any wanderer in want of clothing, or that the needy had no covering; 
 20  If his loins have not blessed me, and if he were not warmed with the fleece of my sheep; 
 21  If I have lifted up my hand against the fatherless, because I saw my help in the gate; 
 22  Then let my shoulder fall from the shoulder-blade, and mine arm be broken from the bone. 
 23  For calamity from God was a terror to me, and by reason of His majesty I could do nothing. 
 24  If I have made gold my hope, and have said to the fine gold: 'Thou art my confidence'; 
 25  If I rejoiced because my wealth was great, and because my hand had gotten much; 
 26  If I beheld the sun when it shined, or the moon walking in brightness; 
 27  And my heart hath been secretly enticed, and my mouth hath kissed my hand; 
 28  This also were an iniquity to be punished by the judges; for I should have lied to God that is above. 
 29  If I rejoiced at the destruction of him that hated me, or exulted when evil found him-- 
 30  Yea, I suffered not my mouth to sin by asking his life with a curse. 
 31  If the men of my tent said not: 'Who can find one that hath not been satisfied with his meat?' 
 32  The stranger did not lodge in the street; my doors I opened to the roadside. 
 33  If after the manner of men I covered my transgressions, by hiding mine iniquity in my bosom-- 
 34  Because I feared the great multitude, and the most contemptible among families terrified me, so that I kept silence, and went not out of the door. 
 35  Oh that I had one to hear me! --Lo, here is my signature, let the Almighty answer me--and that I had the indictment which mine adversary hath written! 
 36  Surely I would carry it upon my shoulder; I would bind it unto me as a crown. 
 37  I would declare unto him the number of my steps; as a prince would I go near unto him. 
 38  If my land cry out against me, and the furrows thereof weep together; 
 39  If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money, or have caused the tillers thereof to be disappointed-- 
 40  Let thistles grow instead of wheat, and noisome weeds instead of barley. The words of Job are ended. 





























