 1  Elihu also proceeded, and said: 
 2  Suffer me a little, and I will tell thee; for there are yet words on God's behalf. 
 3  I will fetch my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe righteousness to my Maker. 
 4  For truly my words are not false; one that is upright in mind is with thee. 
 5  Behold, God is mighty, yet He despiseth not any; He is mighty in strength of understanding. 
 6  He preserveth not the life of the wicked; but giveth to the poor their right. 
 7  He withdraweth not His eyes from the righteous; but with kings upon the throne He setteth them for ever, and they are exalted. 
 8  And if they be bound in fetters, and be holden in cords of affliction; 
 9  Then He declareth unto them their work, and their transgressions, that they have behaved themselves proudly. 
 10  He openeth also their ear to discipline, and commandeth that they return from iniquity. 
 11  If they hearken and serve Him, they shall spend their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures. 
 12  But if they hearken not, they shall perish by the sword, and they shall die without knowledge. 
 13  But they that are godless in heart lay up anger; they cry not for help when He bindeth them. 
 14  Their soul perisheth in youth, and their life as that of the depraved. 
 15  He delivereth the afflicted by His affliction, and openeth their ear by tribulation. 
 16  Yea, He hath allured thee out of distress into a broad place, where there is no straitness; and that which is set on thy table is full of fatness; 
 17  And thou art full of the judgment of the wicked; judgment and justice take hold on them. 
 18  For beware of wrath, lest thou be led away by thy sufficiency; neither let the greatness of the ransom turn thee aside. 
 19  Will thy riches avail, that are without stint, or all the forces of thy strength? 
 20  Desire not the night, when peoples are cut off in their place. 
 21  Take heed, regard not iniquity; for this hast thou chosen rather than affliction. 
 22  Behold, God doeth loftily in His power; who is a teacher like Him? 
 23  Who hath enjoined Him His way? Or who hath said: 'Thou hast wrought unrighteousness'? 
 24  Remember that thou magnify His work, whereof men have sung. 
 25  All men have looked thereon; man beholdeth it afar off. 
 26  Behold, God is great, beyond our knowledge; the number of His years is unsearchable. 
 27  For He draweth away the drops of water, which distil rain from His vapour; 
 28  Which the skies pour down and drop upon the multitudes of men. 
 29  Yea, can any understand the spreadings of the clouds, the crashings of His pavilion? 
 30  Behold, He spreadeth His light upon it; and He covereth the depths of the sea. 
 31  For by these He judgeth the peoples; He giveth food in abundance. 
 32  He covereth His hands with the lightning, and giveth it a charge that it strike the mark. 
 33  The noise thereof telleth concerning it, the cattle also concerning the storm that cometh up. 





























