 1 ¶ (4:14) Now shalt thou gather thyself in troops, O daughter of troops; they have laid siege against us; they smite the judge of Israel with a rod upon the cheek. 
 2  (5:1) But thou, Beth-lehem Ephrathah, which art little to be among the thousands of Judah, out of thee shall one come forth unto Me that is to be ruler in Israel; whose goings forth are from of old, from ancient days. 
 3  (5:2) Therefore will He give them up, until the time that she who travaileth hath brought forth; then the residue of his brethren shall return with the children of Israel. 
 4  (5:3) And he shall stand, and shall feed his flock in the strength of the LORD, in the majesty of the name of the LORD his God; and they shall abide, for then shall he be great unto the ends of the earth. 
 5  (5:4) And this shall be peace: when the Assyrian shall come into our land, and when he shall tread in our palaces, then shall we raise against him seven shepherds, and eight princes among men. 
 6  (5:5) And they shall waste the land of Assyria with the sword, and the land of Nimrod with the keen-edged sword; and he shall deliver us from the Assyrian, when he cometh into our land, and when he treadeth within our border. 
 7 ¶ (5:6) And the remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many peoples, as dew from the LORD, as showers upon the grass, that are not looked for from man, nor awaited at the hands of the sons of men. 
 8  (5:7) And the remnant of Jacob shall be among the nations, in the midst of many peoples, as a lion among the beasts of the forest, as a young lion among the flocks of sheep, who, if he go through, treadeth down and teareth in pieces, and there is none to deliver. 
 9  (5:8) Let Thy hand be lifted up above Thine adversaries, and let all Thine enemies be cut off. 
 10  (5:9) And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the LORD, that I will cut off thy horses out of the midst of thee, and will destroy thy chariots; 
 11  (5:10) And I will cut off the cities of thy land, and will throw down all thy strongholds; 
 12  (5:11) And I will cut off witchcrafts out of thy hand; and thou shalt have no more soothsayers; 
 13  (5:12) And I will cut off thy graven images and thy pillars out of the midst of thee; and thou shalt no more worship the work of thy hands. 
 14  (5:13) And I will pluck up thy Asherim out of the midst of thee; and I will destroy thine enemies. 
 15  (5:14) And I will execute vengeance in anger and fury upon the nations, because they hearkened not. 





























