 1  And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying: 
 2  Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them: When ye are come into the land of your habitations, which I give unto you, 
 3  and will make an offering by fire unto the LORD, a burnt-offering, or a sacrifice, in fulfilment of a vow clearly uttered, or as a freewill-offering, or in your appointed seasons, to make a sweet savour unto the LORD, of the herd, or of the flock; 
 4  then shall he that bringeth his offering present unto the LORD a meal-offering of a tenth part of an ephah of fine flour mingled with the fourth part of a hin of oil; 
 5  and wine for the drink-offering, the fourth part of a hin, shalt thou prepare with the burnt-offering or for the sacrifice, for each lamb. 
 6  Or for a ram, thou shalt prepare for a meal-offering two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mingled with the third part of a hin of oil; 
 7  and for the drink-offering thou shalt present the third part of a hin of wine, of a sweet savour unto the LORD. 
 8  And when thou preparest a bullock for a burnt-offering, or for a sacrifice, in fulfilment of a vow clearly uttered, or for peace-offerings unto the LORD; 
 9  then shall there be presented with the bullock a meal-offering of three tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mingled with half a hin of oil. 
 10  And thou shalt present for the drink-offering half a hin of wine, for an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD. 
 11  Thus shall it be done for each bullock, or for each ram, or for each of the he-lambs, or of the kids. 
 12  According to the number that ye may prepare, so shall ye do for every one according to their number. 
 13  All that are home-born shall do these things after this manner, in presenting an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD. 
 14  And if a stranger sojourn with you, or whosoever may be among you, throughout your generations, and will offer an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD; as ye do, so he shall do. 
 15  As for the congregation, there shall be one statute both for you, and for the stranger that sojourneth with you, a statute for ever throughout your generations; as ye are, so shall the stranger be before the LORD. 
 16  One law and one ordinance shall be both for you, and for the stranger that sojourneth with you. 
 17  And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying: 
 18  Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them: When ye come into the land whither I bring you, 
 19  then it shall be, that, when ye eat of the bread of the land, ye shall set apart a portion for a gift unto the LORD. 
 20  Of the first of your dough ye shall set apart a cake for a gift; as that which is set apart of the threshing-floor, so shall ye set it apart. 
 21  Of the first of your dough ye shall give unto the LORD a portion for a gift throughout your generations. 
 22  And when ye shall err, and not observe all these commandments, which the LORD hath spoken unto Moses, 
 23  even all that the LORD hath commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the day that the LORD gave commandment, and onward throughout your generations; 
 24  then it shall be, if it be done in error by the congregation, it being hid from their eyes, that all the congregation shall offer one young bullock for a burnt-offering, for a sweet savour unto the LORD--with the meal-offering thereof, and the drink-offering thereof, according to the ordinance--and one he-goat for a sin-offering. 
 25  And the priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and they shall be forgiven; for it was an error, and they have brought their offering, an offering made by fire unto the LORD, and their sin-offering before the LORD, for their error. 
 26  And all the congregation of the children of Israel shall be forgiven, and the stranger that sojourneth among them; for in respect of all the people it was done in error. 
 27  And if one person sin through error, then he shall offer a she-goat of the first year for a sin-offering. 
 28  And the priest shall make atonement for the soul that erreth, when he sinneth through error, before the LORD, to make atonement for him; and he shall be forgiven, 
 29  both he that is home-born among the children of Israel, and the stranger that sojourneth among them: ye shall have one law for him that doeth aught in error. 
 30  But the soul that doeth aught with a high hand, whether he be home-born or a stranger, the same blasphemeth the LORD; and that soul shall be cut off from among his people. 
 31  Because he hath despised the word of the LORD, and hath broken His commandment; that soul shall utterly be cut off, his iniquity shall be upon him. 
 32  And while the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks upon the sabbath day. 
 33  And they that found him gathering sticks brought him unto Moses and Aaron, and unto all the congregation. 
 34  And they put him in ward, because it had not been declared what should be done to him. 
 35  And the LORD said unto Moses: 'The man shall surely be put to death; all the congregation shall stone him with stones without the camp.' 
 36  And all the congregation brought him without the camp, and stoned him with stones, and he died, as the LORD commanded Moses. 
 37  And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying: 
 38  'Speak unto the children of Israel, and bid them that they make them throughout their generations fringes in the corners of their garments, and that they put with the fringe of each corner a thread of blue. 
 39  And it shall be unto you for a fringe, that ye may look upon it, and remember all the commandments of the LORD, and do them; and that ye go not about after your own heart and your own eyes, after which ye use to go astray; 
 40  that ye may remember and do all My commandments, and be holy unto your God. 
 41  I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the LORD your God.' 





























