 1  He that separateth himself seeketh his own desire, and snarlest against all sound wisdom. 
 2  A fool hath no delight in understanding, but only that his heart may lay itself bare. 
 3  When the wicked cometh, there cometh also contempt, and with ignominy reproach. 
 4  The words of a man's mouth are as deep waters; a flowing brook, a fountain of wisdom. 
 5  It is not good to respect the person of the wicked, so as to turn aside the righteous in judgment. 
 6  A fool's lips enter into contention, and his mouth calleth for strokes. 
 7  A fool's mouth is his ruin, and his lips are the snare of his soul. 
 8  The words of a whisperer are as dainty morsels, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly. 
 9  Even one that is slack in his work is brother to him that is a destroyer. 
 10  The name of the LORD is a strong tower: the righteous runneth into it, and is set up on high. 
 11  The rich man's wealth is his strong city, and as a high wall in his own conceit. 
 12  Before destruction the heart of a man is haughty, and before honour goeth humility. 
 13  He that giveth answer before he heareth, it is folly and confusion unto him. 
 14  The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; but a broken spirit who can bear? 
 15  The heart of the prudent getteth knowledge; and the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge. 
 16  A man's gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before great men. 
 17  He that pleadeth his cause first seemeth just; but his neighbour cometh and searcheth him out. 
 18  The lot causeth strife to cease, and parteth asunder the contentious. 
 19  A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city; and their contentions are like the bars of a castle. 
 20  A man's belly shall be filled with the fruit of his mouth; with the increase of his lips shall he be satisfied. 
 21  Death and life are in the power of the tongue; and they that indulge it shall eat the fruit thereof. 
 22  Whoso findeth a wife findeth a great good, and obtaineth favour of the LORD. 
 23  The poor useth entreaties; but the rich answereth impudently. 
 24  There are friends that one hath to his own hurt; but there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. 





























