 1  He that being often reproved hardeneth his neck shall suddenly be broken, and that without remedy. 
 2  When the righteous are increased, the people rejoice; but when the wicked beareth rule, the people sigh. 
 3  Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father; but he that keepeth company with harlots wasteth his substance. 
 4  The king by justice establisheth the land; but he that exacteth gifts overthroweth it. 
 5  A man that flattereth his neighbour spreadeth a net for his steps. 
 6  In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare; but the righteous doth sing and rejoice. 
 7  The righteous taketh knowledge of the cause of the poor; the wicked understandeth not knowledge. 
 8  Scornful men set a city in a blaze; but wise men turn away wrath. 
 9  If a wise man contendeth with a foolish man, whether he be angry or laugh, there will be no rest. 
 10  The men of blood hate him that is sincere; and as for the upright, they seek his life. 
 11  A fool spendeth all his spirit; but a wise man stilleth it within him. 
 12  If a ruler hearkeneth to falsehood, all his servants are wicked. 
 13  The poor man and the oppressor meet together; the LORD giveth light to the eyes of them both. 
 14  The king that faithfully judgeth the poor, his throne shall be established for ever. 
 15  The rod and reproof give wisdom; but a child left to himself causeth shame to his mother. 
 16  When the wicked are increased, transgression increaseth; but the righteous shall gaze upon their fall. 
 17  Correct thy son, and he will give thee rest; yea, he will give delight unto thy soul. 
 18  Where there is no vision, the people cast off restraint; but he that keepeth the law, happy is he. 
 19  A servant will not be corrected by words; for though he understand, there will be no response. 
 20  Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words? there is more hope for a fool than for him. 
 21  He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a child shall have him become master at the last. 
 22  An angry man stirreth up strife, and a wrathful man aboundeth in transgression. 
 23  A man's pride shall bring him low; but he that is of a lowly spirit shall attain to honour. 
 24  Whoso is partner with a thief hateth his own soul: he heareth the adjuration and uttereth nothing. 
 25  The fear of man bringeth a snare; but whoso putteth his trust in the LORD shall be set up on high. 
 26  Many seek the ruler's favour; but a man's judgment cometh from the LORD. 
 27  An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous; and he that is upright in the way is an abomination to the wicked. 





























