 1  My son, forget not my teaching; but let thy heart keep my commandments; 
 2  For length of days, and years of life, and peace, will they add to thee. 
 3  Let not kindness and truth forsake thee; bind them about thy neck, write them upon the table of thy heart; 
 4  So shalt thou find grace and good favour in the sight of God and man. 
 5  Trust in the LORD with all thy heart, and lean not upon thine own understanding. 
 6  In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He will direct thy paths. 
 7  Be not wise in thine own eyes; fear the LORD, and depart from evil; 
 8  It shall be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones. 
 9  Honour the LORD with thy substance, and with the first-fruits of all thine increase; 
 10  So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy vats shall overflow with new wine. 
 11  My son, despise not the chastening of the LORD, neither spurn thou His correction; 
 12  For whom the LORD loveth He correcteth, even as a father the son in whom he delighteth. 
 13  Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that obtaineth understanding. 
 14  For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold. 
 15  She is more precious than rubies; and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her. 
 16  Length of days is in her right hand; in her left hand are riches and honour. 
 17  Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. 
 18  She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her, and happy is every one that holdest her fast. 
 19  The LORD by wisdom founded the earth; by understanding He established the heavens. 
 20  By His knowledge the depths were broken up, and the skies drop down the dew. 
 21  My son, let not them depart from thine eyes; keep sound wisdom and discretion; 
 22  So shall they be life unto thy soul, and grace to thy neck. 
 23  Then shalt thou walk in thy way securely, and thou shalt not dash thy foot. 
 24  When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid; yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet. 
 25  Be not afraid of sudden terror, neither of the destruction of the wicked, when it cometh; 
 26  For the LORD will be thy confidence, and will keep thy foot from being caught. 
 27  Withhold not good from him to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thy hand to do it. 
 28  Say not unto thy neighbour: 'Go, and come again, and to-morrow I will give'; when thou hast it by thee. 
 29  Devise not evil against thy neighbour, seeing he dwelleth securely by thee. 
 30  Strive not with a man without cause, if he have done thee no harm. 
 31  Envy thou not the man of violence, and choose none of his ways. 
 32  For the perverse is an abomination to the LORD; but His counsel is with the upright. 
 33  The curse of the LORD is in the house of the wicked; but He blesseth the habitation of the righteous. 
 34  If it concerneth the scorners, He scorneth them, but unto the humble He giveth grace. 
 35  The wise shall inherit honour; but as for the fools, they carry away shame. 





























