 1  Better is a dry morsel and quietness therewith, than a house full of feasting with strife. 
 2  A servant that dealeth wisely shall have rule over a son that dealeth shamefully, and shall have part of the inheritance among the brethren. 
 3  The refining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold; but the LORD trieth the hearts. 
 4  A evil-doer giveth heed to wicked lips; and a liar giveth ear to a mischievous tongue. 
 5  Whoso mocketh the poor blasphemeth his Maker; and he that is glad at calamity shall not be unpunished. 
 6  Children's children are the crown of old men; and the glory of children are their fathers. 
 7  Overbearing speech becometh not a churl; much less do lying lips a prince. 
 8  A gift is as a precious stone in the eyes of him that hath it; whithersoever he turneth, he prospereth. 
 9  He that covereth a transgression seeketh love; but he that harpeth on a matter estrangeth a familiar friend. 
 10  A rebuke entereth deeper into a man of understanding than a hundred stripes into a fool. 
 11  An rebellious man seeketh only evil; therefore a cruel messenger shall be sent against him. 
 12  Let a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man, rather than a fool in his folly. 
 13  Whoso rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house. 
 14  The beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water; therefore leave off contention, before the quarrel break out. 
 15  He that justifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the righteous, even they both are an abomination to the LORD. 
 16  Wherefore is there a price in the hand of a fool to buy wisdom, seeing he hath no understanding? 
 17  A friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for adversity. 
 18  A man void of understanding is he that striketh hands, and becometh surety in the presence of his neighbour. 
 19  He loveth transgression that loveth strife; he that exalteth his gate seeketh destruction. 
 20  He that hath a froward heart findeth no good; and he that hath a perverse tongue falleth into evil. 
 21  He that begetteth a fool doeth it to his sorrow; and the father of a churl hath no joy. 
 22  A merry heart is a good medicine; but a broken spirit drieth the bones. 
 23  A wicked man taketh a gift out of the bosom, to pervert the ways of justice. 
 24  Wisdom is before him that hath understanding; but the eyes of a fool are in the ends of the earth. 
 25  A foolish son is vexation to his father, and bitterness to her that bore him. 
 26  To punish also the righteous is not good, nor to strike the noble for their uprightness. 
 27  He that spareth his words hath knowledge; and he that husbandeth his spirit is a man of discernment. 
 28  Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise; and he that shutteth his lips is esteemed as a man of understanding. 





























