 1  These also are proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied out. 
 2  It is the glory of God to conceal a thing; but the glory of kings is to search out a matter. 
 3  The heaven for height, and the earth for depth, and the heart of kings is unsearchable. 
 4  Take away the dross from the silver, and there cometh forth a vessel for the refiner; 
 5  Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne shall be established in righteousness. 
 6  Glorify not thyself in the presence of the king, and stand not in the place of great men; 
 7  For better is it that it be said unto thee: 'Come up hither', than that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the prince, whom thine eyes have seen. 
 8  Go not forth hastily to strive, lest thou know not what to do in the end thereof, when thy neighbour hath put thee to shame. 
 9  Debate thy cause with thy neighbour, but reveal not the secret of another; 
 10  Lest he that heareth it revile thee, and thine infamy turn not away. 
 11  A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in settings of silver. 
 12  As an ear-ring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover upon an obedient ear. 
 13  As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to him that sendeth him; for he refresheth the soul of his master. 
 14  As vapours and wind without rain, so is he that boasteth himself of a false gift. 
 15  By long forbearing is a ruler persuaded, and a soft tongue breaketh the bone. 
 16  Hast thou found honey? eat so much as is sufficient for thee, lest thou be filled therewith, and vomit it. 
 17  Let thy foot be seldom in thy neighbour's house; lest he be sated with thee, and hate thee. 
 18  As a maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow, so is a man that beareth false witness against his neighbour. 
 19  Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a broken tooth, and a foot out of joint. 
 20  As one that taketh off a garment in cold weather, and as vinegar upon nitre, so is he that singeth songs to a heavy heart. 
 21  If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat, and if he be thirsty, give him water to drink; 
 22  For thou wilt heap coals of fire upon his head, and the LORD will reward thee. 
 23  The north wind bringeth forth rain, and a backbiting tongue an angry countenance. 
 24  It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than in a house in common with a contentious woman. 
 25  As cold waters to a faint soul, so is good news from a far country. 
 26  As a troubled fountain, and a corrupted spring, so is a righteous man that giveth way before the wicked. 
 27  It is not good to eat much honey; so for men to search out their own glory is not glory. 
 28  Like a city broken down and without a wall, so is he whose spirit is without restraint. 





























