 1  The words of Agur the son of Jakeh; the burden. The man saith unto Ithiel, unto Ithiel and Ucal: 
 2  Surely I am brutish, unlike a man, and have not the understanding of a man; 
 3  And I have not learned wisdom, that I should have the knowledge of the Holy One. 
 4  Who hath ascended up into heaven, and descended? Who hath gathered the wind in his fists? Who hath bound the waters in his garment? Who hath established all the ends of the earth? What is his name, and what is his son's name, if thou knowest? 
 5  Every word of God is tried; He is a shield unto them that take refuge in Him. 
 6  Add thou not unto His words, lest He reprove thee, and thou be found a liar. 
 7  Two things have I asked of Thee; deny me them not before I die: 
 8  Remove far from me falsehood and lies; give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with mine allotted bread; 
 9  Lest I be full, and deny, and say: 'Who is the LORD?' Or lest I be poor, and steal, and profane the name of my God. 
 10  Slander not a servant unto his master, lest he curse thee, and thou be found guilty. 
 11  There is a generation that curse their father, and do not bless their mother. 
 12  There is a generation that are pure in their own eyes, and yet are not washed from their filthiness. 
 13  There is a generation, Oh how lofty are their eyes! and their eyelids are lifted up. 
 14  There is a generation whose teeth are as swords, and their great teeth as knives, to devour the poor from off the earth, and the needy from among men. 
 15  The horseleech hath two daughters: 'Give, give.' There are three things that are never satisfied, yea, four that say not: 'Enough': 
 16  The grave; and the barren womb; the earth that is not satisfied with water; and the fire that saith not: 'Enough.' 
 17  The eye that mocketh at his father, and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young vultures shall eat it. 
 18  There are three things which are too wonderful for me, yea, four which I know not: 
 19  The way of an eagle in the air; the way of a serpent upon a rock; the way of a ship in the midst of the sea; and the way of a man with a young woman. 
 20  So is the way of an adulterous woman; she eateth, and wipeth her mouth, and saith: 'I have done no wickedness.' 
 21  For three things the earth doth quake, and for four it cannot endure: 
 22  For a servant when he reigneth; and a churl when he is filled with food; 
 23  For an odious woman when she is married; and a handmaid that is heir to her mistress. 
 24  There are four things which are little upon the earth, but they are exceeding wise: 
 25  The ants are a people not strong, yet they provide their food in the summer; 
 26  The rock-badgers are but a feeble folk, yet make they their houses in the crags; 
 27  The locusts have no king, yet go they forth all of them by bands; 
 28  The spider thou canst take with the hands, yet is she in kings' palaces. 
 29  There are three things which are stately in their march, yea, four which are stately in going: 
 30  The lion, which is mightiest among beasts, and turneth not away for any; 
 31  The greyhound; the he-goat also; and the king, against whom there is no rising up. 
 32  If thou hast done foolishly in lifting up thyself, or if thou hast planned devices, lay thy hand upon thy mouth. 
 33  For the churning of milk bringeth forth curd, and the wringing of the nose bringeth forth blood; so the forcing of wrath bringeth forth strife. 





























