 1  Whoso loveth knowledge loveth correction; but he that is brutish hateth reproof. 
 2  A good man shall obtain favour of the LORD; but a man of wicked devices will He condemn. 
 3  A man shall not be established by wickedness; but the root of the righteous shall never be moved. 
 4  A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband; but she that doeth shamefully is as rottenness in his bones. 
 5  The thoughts of the righteous are right; but the counsels of the wicked are deceit. 
 6  The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood; but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them. 
 7  The wicked are overthrown, and are not; but the house of the righteous shall stand. 
 8  A man shall be commended according to his intelligence; but he that is of a distorted understanding shall be despised. 
 9  Better is he that is lightly esteemed, and hath a servant, than he that playeth the man of rank, and lacketh bread. 
 10  A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast; but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel. 
 11  He that tilleth his ground shall have plenty of bread; but he that followeth after vain things is void of understanding. 
 12  The wicked desireth the prey of evil men; but the root of the righteous yieldeth fruit. 
 13  In the transgression of the lips is a snare to the evil man; but the righteous cometh out of trouble. 
 14  A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth, and the doings of a man's hands shall be rendered unto him. 
 15  The way of a fool is straight in his own eyes; but he that is wise hearkeneth unto counsel. 
 16  A fool's vexation is presently known; but a prudent man concealeth shame. 
 17  He that breatheth forth truth uttereth righteousness; but a false witness deceit. 
 18  There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword; but the tongue of the wise is health. 
 19  The lip of truth shall be established for ever; but a lying tongue is but for a moment. 
 20  Deceit is in the heart of them that devise evil; but to the counsellors of peace is joy. 
 21  There shall no mischief befall the righteous; but the wicked are filled with evil. 
 22  Lying lips are an abomination to the LORD; but they that deal truly are His delight. 
 23  A prudent man concealeth knowledge; but the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness. 
 24  The hand of the diligent shall bear rule; but the slothful shall be under tribute. 
 25  Care in the heart of a man boweth it down; but a good word maketh it glad. 
 26  The righteous is guided by his friend; but the way of the wicked leadeth them astray. 
 27  The slothful man shall not hunt his prey; but the precious substance of men is to be diligent. 
 28  In the way of righteousness is life, and in the pathway thereof there is no death. 





























