 1  The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son maketh a glad father; but a foolish son is the grief of his mother. 
 2  Treasures of wickedness profit nothing; but righteousness delivereth from death. 
 3  The LORD will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish; but He thrusteth away the desire of the wicked. 
 4  He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand; but the hand of the diligent maketh rich. 
 5  A wise son gathereth in summer; but a son that doeth shamefully sleepeth in harvest. 
 6  Blessings are upon the head of the righteous; but the mouth of the wicked concealeth violence. 
 7  The memory of the righteous shall be for a blessing; but the name of the wicked shall rot. 
 8  The wise in heart will receive commandments; but a prating fool shall fall. 
 9  He that walketh uprightly walketh securely; but he that perverteth his ways shall be found out. 
 10  He that winketh with the eye causeth sorrow; and a prating fool shall fall. 
 11  The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life; but the mouth of the wicked concealeth violence. 
 12  Hatred stirreth up strifes; but love covereth all transgressions. 
 13  In the lips of him that hath discernment wisdom is found; but a rod is for the back of him that is void of understanding. 
 14  Wise men lay up knowledge; but the mouth of the foolish is an imminent ruin. 
 15  The rich man's wealth is his strong city; the ruin of the poor is their poverty. 
 16  The wages of the righteous is life; the increase of the wicked is sin. 
 17  He is in the way of life that heedeth instruction; but he that forsaketh reproof erreth. 
 18  He that hideth hatred is of lying lips; and he that uttereth a slander is a fool. 
 19  In the multitude of words there wanteth not transgression; but he that refraineth his lips is wise. 
 20  The tongue of the righteous is as choice silver; the heart of the wicked is little worth. 
 21  The lips of the righteous feed many; but the foolish die for want of understanding. 
 22  The blessing of the LORD, it maketh rich, and toil addeth nothing thereto. 
 23  It is as sport to a fool to do wickedness, and so is wisdom to a man of discernment. 
 24  The fear of the wicked, it shall come upon him; and the desire of the righteous shall be granted. 
 25  When the whirlwind passeth, the wicked is no more; but the righteous is an everlasting foundation. 
 26  As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to them that send him. 
 27  The fear of the LORD prolongeth days; but the years of the wicked shall be shortened. 
 28  The hope of the righteous is gladness; but the expectation of the wicked shall perish. 
 29  The way of the LORD is a stronghold to the upright, but ruin to the workers of iniquity. 
 30  The righteous shall never be moved; but the wicked shall not inhabit the land. 
 31  The mouth of the righteous buddeth with wisdom; but the froward tongue shall be cut off. 
 32  The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable; but the mouth of the wicked is all frowardness. 





























