 1  The king's heart is in the hand of the LORD, as the watercourses: He turneth it whithersoever He will. 
 2  Every way of a man is right in his own eyes; but the LORD weigheth the hearts. 
 3  To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to the LORD than sacrifice. 
 4  A haughty look, and a proud heart--the tillage of the wicked is sin. 
 5  The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plenteousness; but every one that is hasty hasteth only to want. 
 6  The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a vapour driven to and fro; they that seek them seek death. 
 7  The violence of the wicked shall drag them away; because they refuse to do justly. 
 8  The way of man is froward and strange; but as for the pure, his work is right. 
 9  It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than in a house in common with a contentious woman. 
 10  The soul of the wicked desireth evil; his neighbour findeth no favour in his eyes. 
 11  When the scorner is punished, the thoughtless is made wise; and when the wise is instructed, he receiveth knowledge. 
 12  The Righteous One considereth the house of the wicked; overthrowing the wicked to their ruin. 
 13  Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he also shall cry himself, but shall not be answered. 
 14  A gift in secret pacifieth anger, and a present in the bosom strong wrath. 
 15  To do justly is joy to the righteous, but ruin to the workers of iniquity. 
 16  The man that strayeth out of the way of understanding shall rest in the congregation of the shades. 
 17  He that loveth pleasure shall be a poor man; he that loveth wine and oil shall not be rich. 
 18  The wicked is a ransom for the righteous; and the faithless cometh in the stead of the upright. 
 19  It is better to dwell in a desert land, than with a contentious and fretful woman. 
 20  There is desirable treasure and oil in the dwelling of the wise; but a foolish man swalloweth it up. 
 21  He that followeth after righteousness and mercy findeth life, prosperity, and honour. 
 22  A wise man scaleth the city of the mighty, and bringeth down the stronghold wherein it trusteth. 
 23  Whoso keepeth his mouth and his tongue keepeth his soul from troubles. 
 24  A proud and haughty man, scorner is his name, even he that dealeth in overbearing pride. 
 25  The desire of the slothful killeth him; for his hands refuse to labour. 
 26  There is that coveteth greedily all the day long; but the righteous giveth and spareth not. 
 27  The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination; how much more, when he bringeth it with the proceeds of wickedness? 
 28  A false witness shall perish; but the man that obeyeth shall speak unchallenged. 
 29  A wicked man hardeneth his face; but as for the upright, he looketh well to his way. 
 30  There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against the LORD. 
 31  The horse is prepared against the day of battle; but victory is of the LORD. 





























