 1  Every wise woman buildeth her house; but the foolish plucketh it down with her hands. 
 2  He that walketh in his uprightness feareth the LORD; but he that is perverse in his ways despiseth Him. 
 3  In the mouth of the foolish is a rod of pride; but the lips of the wise shall preserve them. 
 4  Where no oxen are, the crib is clean; but much increase is by the strength of the ox. 
 5  A faithful witness will not lie; but a false witness breatheth forth lies. 
 6  A scorner seeketh wisdom, and findeth it not; but knowledge is easy unto him that hath discernment. 
 7  Go from the presence of a foolish man, for thou wilt not perceive the lips of knowledge. 
 8  The wisdom of the prudent is to look well to his way; but the folly of fools is deceit. 
 9  Amends pleadeth for fools; but among the upright there is good will. 
 10  The heart knoweth its own bitterness; and with its joy no stranger can intermeddle. 
 11  The house of the wicked shall be overthrown; but the tent of the upright shall flourish. 
 12  There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. 
 13  Even in laughter the heart acheth; and the end of mirth is heaviness. 
 14  The dissembler in heart shall have his fill from his own ways; and a good man shall be satisfied from himself. 
 15  The thoughtless believeth every word; but the prudent man looketh well to his going. 
 16  A wise man feareth, and departeth from evil; but the fool behaveth overbearingly, and is confident. 
 17  He that is soon angry dealeth foolishly; and a man of wicked devices is hated. 
 18  The thoughtless come into possession of folly; but the prudent are crowned with knowledge. 
 19  The evil bow before the good, and the wicked at the gates of the righteous. 
 20  The poor is hated even of his own neighbour; but the rich hath many friends. 
 21  He that despiseth his neighbour sinneth; but he that is gracious unto the humble, happy is he. 
 22  Shall they not go astray that devise evil? But mercy and truth shall be for them that devise good. 
 23  In all labour there is profit; but the talk of the lips tendeth only to penury. 
 24  The crown of the wise is their riches; but the folly of fools remaineth folly. 
 25  A true witness delivereth souls; but he that breatheth forth lies is all deceit. 
 26  In the fear of the LORD a man hath strong confidence; and his children shall have a place of refuge. 
 27  The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death. 
 28  In the multitude of people is the king's glory; but in the want of people is the ruin of the prince. 
 29  He that is slow to anger is of great understanding; but he that is hasty of spirit exalteth folly. 
 30  A tranquil heart is the life of the flesh; but envy is the rottenness of the bones. 
 31  He that oppresseth the poor blasphemeth his Maker; but he that is gracious unto the needy honoureth Him. 
 32  The wicked is thrust down in his misfortune; but the righteous, even when he is brought to death, hath hope. 
 33  In the heart of him that hath discernment wisdom resteth; but in the inward part of fools it maketh itself known. 
 34  Righteousness exalteth a nation; but sin is a reproach to any people. 
 35  The king's favour is toward a servant that dealeth wisely; but his wrath striketh him that dealeth shamefully. 





























