 1 ¶ For the Leader. A Psalm of David. O LORD, Thou hast searched me, and known me. 
 2  Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, Thou understandest my thought afar off. 
 3  Thou measurest my going about and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways. 
 4  For there is not a word in my tongue, but, lo, O LORD, Thou knowest it altogether. 
 5  Thou hast hemmed me in behind and before, and laid Thy hand upon me. 
 6  Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; too high, I cannot attain unto it. 
 7 ¶ Whither shall I go from Thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from Thy presence? 
 8  If I ascend up into heaven, Thou art there; if I make my bed in the nether-world, behold, Thou art there. 
 9  If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea; 
 10  Even there would Thy hand lead me, and Thy right hand would hold me. 
 11  And if I say: 'Surely the darkness shall envelop me, and the light about me shall be night'; 
 12  Even the darkness is not too dark for Thee, but the night shineth as the day; the darkness is even as the light. 
 13  For Thou hast made my reins; Thou hast knit me together in my mother's womb. 
 14  I will give thanks unto Thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made; wonderful are Thy works; and that my soul knoweth right well. 
 15  My frame was not hidden from Thee, when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth. 
 16  Thine eyes did see mine unformed substance, and in Thy book they were all written--even the days that were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them. 
 17 ¶ How weighty also are Thy thoughts unto me, O God! How great is the sum of them! 
 18  If I would count them, they are more in number than the sand; were I to come to the end of them, I would still be with Thee. 
 19  If Thou but wouldest slay the wicked, O God--depart from me therefore, ye men of blood; 
 20  Who utter Thy name with wicked thought, they take it for falsehood, even Thine enemies-- 
 21  Do not I hate them, O LORD, that hate Thee? And do not I strive with those that rise up against Thee? 
 22  I hate them with utmost hatred; I count them mine enemies. 
 23  Search me, O God, and know my heart, try me, and know my thoughts; 
 24  And see if there be any way in me that is grievous, and lead me in the way everlasting. 





























