 1 ¶ O give thanks unto the LORD, call upon His name; make known His doings among the peoples. 
 2  Sing unto Him, sing praises unto Him; speak ye of all His marvellous works. 
 3  Glory ye in His holy name; let the heart of them rejoice that seek the LORD. 
 4  Seek ye the LORD and His strength; seek His face continually. 
 5  Remember His marvellous works that He hath done, His wonders, and the judgments of His mouth; 
 6  O ye seed of Abraham His servant, ye children of Jacob, His chosen ones. 
 7  He is the LORD our God; His judgments are in all the earth. 
 8 ¶ He hath remembered His covenant for ever, the word which He commanded to a thousand generations; 
 9  The covenant which He made with Abraham, and His oath unto Isaac; 
 10  And He established it unto Jacob for a statute, to Israel for an everlasting covenant; 
 11  Saying: 'Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance.' 
 12  When they were but a few men in number. Yea, very few, and sojourners in it, 
 13  And when they went about from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people, 
 14  He suffered no man to do them wrong, yea, for their sake He reproved kings: 
 15  'Touch not Mine anointed ones, and do My prophets no harm.' 
 16  And He called a famine upon the land; He broke the whole staff of bread. 
 17  He sent a man before them; Joseph was sold for a servant; 
 18  His feet they hurt with fetters, his person was laid in iron; 
 19  Until the time that his word came to pass, the word of the LORD tested him. 
 20  The king sent and loosed him; even the ruler of the peoples, and set him free. 
 21  He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all his possessions; 
 22  To bind his princes at his pleasure, and teach his elders wisdom. 
 23  Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham. 
 24  And He increased His people greatly, and made them too mighty for their adversaries. 
 25 ¶ He turned their heart to hate His people, to deal craftily with His servants. 
 26  He sent Moses His servant, and Aaron whom He had chosen. 
 27  They wrought among them His manifold signs, and wonders in the land of Ham. 
 28  He sent darkness, and it was dark; and they rebelled not against His word. 
 29  He turned their waters into blood, and slew their fish. 
 30  Their land swarmed with frogs, in the chambers of their kings. 
 31  He spoke, and there came swarms of flies, and gnats in all their borders. 
 32  He gave them hail for rain, and flaming fire in their land. 
 33  He smote their vines also and their fig-trees; and broke the trees of their borders. 
 34  He spoke, and the locust came, and the canker-worm without number, 
 35  And did eat up every herb in their land, and did eat up the fruit of their ground. 
 36  He smote also all the first-born in their land, the first-fruits of all their strength. 
 37  And He brought them forth with silver and gold; and there was none that stumbled among His tribes. 
 38  Egypt was glad when they departed; for the fear of them had fallen upon them. 
 39  He spread a cloud for a screen; and fire to give light in the night. 
 40  They asked, and He brought quails, and gave them in plenty the bread of heaven. 
 41  He opened the rock, and waters gushed out; they ran, a river in the dry places. 
 42  For He remembered His holy word unto Abraham His servant; 
 43  And He brought forth His people with joy, His chosen ones with singing. 
 44  And He gave them the lands of the nations, and they took the labour of the peoples in possession; 
 45  That they might keep His statutes, and observe His laws. Hallelujah. 





























