 1  ALEPH. Happy are they that are upright in the way, who walk in the law of the LORD. 
 2  Happy are they that keep His testimonies, that seek Him with the whole heart. 
 3  Yea, they do no unrighteousness; they walk in His ways. 
 4  Thou hast ordained Thy precepts, that we should observe them diligently. 
 5  Oh that my ways were directed to observe Thy statutes! 
 6  Then should I not be ashamed, when I have regard unto all Thy commandments. 
 7  I will give thanks unto Thee with uprightness of heart, when I learn Thy righteous ordinances. 
 8  I will observe Thy statutes; O forsake me not utterly. 
 9  BETH. Wherewithal shall a young man keep his way pure? By taking heed thereto according to Thy word. 
 10  With my whole heart have I sought Thee; O let me not err from Thy commandments. 
 11  Thy word have I laid up in my heart, that I might not sin against Thee. 
 12  Blessed art Thou, O LORD; teach me Thy statutes. 
 13  With my lips have I told all the ordinances of Thy mouth. 
 14  I have rejoiced in the way of Thy testimonies, as much as in all riches. 
 15  I will meditate in Thy precepts, and have respect unto Thy ways. 
 16  I will delight myself in Thy statutes; I will not forget Thy word. 
 17  GIMEL. Deal bountifully with Thy servant that I may live, and I will observe Thy word. 
 18  Open Thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of Thy law. 
 19  I am a sojourner in the earth; hide not Thy commandments from me. 
 20  My soul breaketh for the longing that it hath unto Thine ordinances at all times. 
 21  Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed, that do err from Thy commandments. 
 22  Take away from me reproach and contempt; for I have kept Thy testimonies. 
 23  Even though princes sit and talk against me, thy servant doth meditate in Thy statutes. 
 24  Yea, Thy testimonies are my delight, they are my counsellors. 
 25  DALETH. My soul cleaveth unto the dust; quicken Thou me according to Thy word. 
 26  I told of my ways, and Thou didst answer me; teach me Thy statutes. 
 27  Make me to understand the way of Thy precepts, that I may talk of Thy wondrous works. 
 28  My soul melteth away for heaviness; sustain me according unto Thy word. 
 29  Remove from me the way of falsehood; and grant me Thy law graciously. 
 30  I have chosen the way of faithfulness; Thine ordinances have I set before me. 
 31  I cleave unto Thy testimonies; O LORD, put me not to shame. 
 32  I will run the way of Thy commandments, for Thou dost enlarge my heart. 
 33  HE. Teach me, O LORD, the way of Thy statutes; and I will keep it at every step. 
 34  Give me understanding, that I keep Thy law and observe it with my whole heart. 
 35  Make me to tread in the path of Thy commandments; for therein do I delight. 
 36  Incline my heart unto Thy testimonies, and not to covetousness. 
 37  Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity, and quicken me in Thy ways. 
 38  Confirm Thy word unto Thy servant, which pertaineth unto the fear of Thee. 
 39  Turn away my reproach which I dread; for Thine ordinances are good. 
 40  Behold, I have longed after Thy precepts; quicken me in Thy righteousness. 
 41  VAV. Let Thy mercies also come unto me, O LORD, even Thy salvation, according to Thy word; 
 42  That I may have an answer for him that taunteth me; for I trust in Thy word. 
 43  And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; for I hope in Thine ordinances; 
 44  So shall I observe Thy law continually for ever and ever; 
 45  And I will walk at ease, for I have sought Thy precepts; 
 46  I will also speak of Thy testimonies before kings, and will not be ashamed. 
 47  And I will delight myself in Thy commandments, which I have loved. 
 48  I will lift up my hands also unto Thy commandments, which I have loved; and I will meditate in Thy statutes. 
 49  ZAIN. Remember the word unto Thy servant, because Thou hast made me to hope. 
 50  This is my comfort in my affliction, that Thy word hath quickened me. 
 51  The proud have had me greatly in derision; yet have I not turned aside from Thy law. 
 52  I have remembered Thine ordinances which are of old, O LORD, and have comforted myself. 
 53  Burning indignation hath taken hold upon me, because of the wicked that forsake Thy law. 
 54  Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage. 
 55  I have remembered Thy name, O LORD, in the night, and have observed Thy law. 
 56  This I have had, that I have kept Thy precepts. 
 57  HETH. My portion is the LORD, I have said that I would observe Thy words. 
 58  I have entreated Thy favour with my whole heart; be gracious unto me according to Thy word. 
 59  I considered my ways, and turned my feet unto Thy testimonies. 
 60  I made haste, and delayed not, to observe Thy commandments. 
 61  The bands of the wicked have enclosed me; but I have not forgotten Thy law. 
 62  At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto Thee because of Thy righteous ordinances. 
 63  I am a companion of all them that fear Thee, and of them that observe Thy precepts. 
 64  The earth, O LORD, is full of Thy mercy; teach me Thy statutes. 
 65  TETH. Thou hast dealt well with Thy servant, O LORD, according unto Thy word. 
 66  Teach me good discernment and knowledge; for I have believed Thy commandments. 
 67  Before I was afflicted, I did err; but now I observe Thy word. 
 68  Thou art good, and doest good; teach me Thy statutes. 
 69  The proud have forged a lie against me; but I with my whole heart will keep Thy precepts. 
 70  Their heart is gross like fat; but I delight in Thy law. 
 71  It is good for me that I have been afflicted, in order that I might learn Thy statutes. 
 72  The law of Thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver. 
 73  JOD. Thy hands have made me and fashioned me; give me understanding, that I may learn Thy commandments. 
 74  They that fear Thee shall see me and be glad, because I have hope in Thy word. 
 75  I know, O LORD, that Thy judgments are righteous, and that in faithfulness Thou hast afflicted me. 
 76  Let, I pray Thee, Thy lovingkindness be ready to comfort me, according to Thy promise unto Thy servant. 
 77  Let Thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live; for Thy law is my delight. 
 78  Let the proud be put to shame, for they have distorted my cause with falsehood; but I will meditate in Thy precepts. 
 79  Let those that fear Thee return unto me, and they that know Thy testimonies. 
 80  Let my heart be undivided in Thy statutes, in order that I may not be put to shame. 
 81  CAPH. My soul pineth for Thy salvation; in Thy word do I hope. 
 82  Mine eyes fail for Thy word, saying: 'When wilt Thou comfort me?' 
 83  For I am become like a wine-skin in the smoke; yet do I not forget Thy statutes. 
 84  How many are the days of Thy servant? When wilt Thou execute judgment on them that persecute me? 
 85  The proud have digged pits for me, which is not according to Thy law. 
 86  All Thy commandments are faithful; they persecute me for nought; help Thou me. 
 87  They had almost consumed me upon earth; but as for me, I forsook not Thy precepts. 
 88  Quicken me after Thy lovingkindness, and I will observe the testimony of Thy mouth. 
 89  LAMED. For ever, O LORD, Thy word standeth fast in heaven. 
 90  Thy faithfulness is unto all generations; Thou hast established the earth, and it standeth. 
 91  They stand this day according to Thine ordinances; for all things are Thy servants. 
 92  Unless Thy law had been my delight, I should then have perished in mine affliction. 
 93  I will never forget Thy precepts; for with them Thou hast quickened me. 
 94  I am Thine, save me; for I have sought Thy precepts. 
 95  The wicked have waited for me to destroy me; but I will consider Thy testimonies. 
 96  I have seen an end to every purpose; but Thy commandment is exceeding broad. 
 97  MEM. O how love I Thy law! It is my meditation all the day. 
 98  Thy commandments make me wiser than mine enemies: for they are ever with me. 
 99  I have more understanding than all my teachers; for Thy testimonies are my meditation. 
 100  I understand more than mine elders, because I have keep Thy precepts. 
 101  I have refrained my feet from every evil way, in order that I might observe Thy word. 
 102  I have not turned aside from Thine ordinances; for Thou hast instructed me. 
 103  How sweet are Thy words unto my palate! yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth! 
 104  From Thy precepts I get understanding; therefore I hate every false way. 
 105  NUN. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path. 
 106  I have sworn, and have confirmed it, to observe Thy righteous ordinances. 
 107  I am afflicted very much; quicken me, O LORD, according unto Thy word. 
 108  Accept, I beseech Thee, the freewill-offerings of my mouth, O LORD, and teach me Thine ordinances. 
 109  My soul is continually in my hand; yet have I not forgotten Thy law. 
 110  The wicked have laid a snare for me; yet went I not astray from Thy precepts. 
 111  Thy testimonies have I taken as a heritage for ever; for they are the rejoicing of my heart. 
 112  I have inclined my heart to perform Thy statutes, for ever, at every step. 
 113  SAMECH. I hate them that are of a double mind; but Thy law do I love. 
 114  Thou art my covert and my shield; in Thy word do I hope. 
 115  Depart from me, ye evildoers; that I may keep the commandments of my God. 
 116  Uphold me according unto Thy word, that I may live; and put me not to shame in my hope. 
 117  Support Thou me, and I shall be saved; and I will occupy myself with Thy statutes continually. 
 118  Thou hast made light of all them that err from Thy statutes; for their deceit is vain. 
 119  Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth like dross; therefore I love Thy testimonies. 
 120  My flesh shuddereth for fear of Thee; and I am afraid of Thy judgments. 
 121  AIN. I have done justice and righteousness; leave me not to mine oppressors. 
 122  Be surety for Thy servant for good; let not the proud oppress me. 
 123  Mine eyes fail for Thy salvation, and for Thy righteous word. 
 124  Deal with Thy servant according unto Thy mercy, and teach me Thy statutes. 
 125  I am Thy servant, give me understanding, that I may know Thy testimonies. 
 126  It is time for the LORD to work; they have made void Thy law. 
 127  Therefore I love Thy commandments above gold, yea, above fine gold. 
 128  Therefore I esteem all Thy precepts concerning all things to be right; every false way I hate. 
 129  PE. Thy testimonies are wonderful; therefore doth my soul keep them. 
 130  The opening of Thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple. 
 131  I opened wide my mouth, and panted; for I longed for Thy commandments. 
 132  Turn Thee towards me, and be gracious unto me, as is Thy wont to do unto those that love Thy name. 
 133  Order my footsteps by Thy word; and let not any iniquity have dominion over me. 
 134  Redeem me from the oppression of man, and I will observe Thy precepts. 
 135  Make Thy face to shine upon Thy servant; and teach me Thy statutes. 
 136  Mine eyes run down with rivers of water, because they observe not Thy law. 
 137  TZADE. Righteous art Thou, O LORD, and upright are Thy judgments. 
 138  Thou hast commanded Thy testimonies in righteousness and exceeding faithfulness. 
 139  My zeal hath undone me, because mine adversaries have forgotten Thy words. 
 140  Thy word is tried to the uttermost, and Thy servant loveth it. 
 141  I am small and despised; yet have I not forgotten Thy precepts. 
 142  Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and Thy law is the truth. 
 143  Trouble and anguish have overtaken me; yet Thy commandments are my delight. 
 144  Thy testimonies are righteous for ever; give me understanding, and I shall live. 
 145  KOPH. I have called with my whole heart; answer me, O LORD; I will keep Thy statutes. 
 146  I have called Thee, save me, and I will observe Thy testimonies. 
 147  I rose early at dawn, and cried; I hoped in Thy word. 
 148  Mine eyes forestalled the night-watches, that I might meditate in Thy word. 
 149  Hear my voice according unto Thy lovingkindness; quicken me, O LORD, as Thou art wont. 
 150  They draw nigh that follow after wickedness; they are far from Thy law. 
 151  Thou art nigh, O LORD; and all Thy commandments are truth. 
 152  Of old have I known from Thy testimonies that Thou hast founded them for ever. 
 153  RESH. O see mine affliction, and rescue me; for I do not forget Thy law. 
 154  Plead Thou my cause, and redeem me; quicken me according to Thy word. 
 155  Salvation is far from the wicked; for they seek not Thy statutes. 
 156  Great are Thy compassions, O LORD; quicken me as Thou art wont. 
 157  Many are my persecutors and mine adversaries; yet have I not turned aside from Thy testimonies. 
 158  I beheld them that were faithless, and strove with them; because they observed not Thy word. 
 159  O see how I love Thy precepts; quicken me, O LORD, according to Thy lovingkindness. 
 160  The beginning of Thy word is truth; and all Thy righteous ordinance endureth for ever. 
 161  SCHIN. Princes have persecuted me without a cause; but my heart standeth in awe of Thy words. 
 162  I rejoice at Thy word, as one that findeth great spoil. 
 163  I hate and abhor falsehood; Thy law do I love. 
 164  Seven times a day do I praise Thee, because of Thy righteous ordinances. 
 165  Great peace have they that love Thy law; and there is no stumbling for them. 
 166  I have hoped for Thy salvation, O LORD, and have done Thy commandments. 
 167  My soul hath observed Thy testimonies; and I love them exceedingly. 
 168  I have observed Thy precepts and Thy testimonies; for all my ways are before Thee. 
 169  TAV. Let my cry come near before Thee, O LORD; give me understanding according to Thy word. 
 170  Let my supplication come before Thee; deliver me according to Thy word. 
 171  Let my lips utter praise: because Thou teachest me Thy statutes. 
 172  Let my tongue sing of Thy word; for all Thy commandments are righteousness. 
 173  Let Thy hand be ready to help me; for I have chosen Thy precepts. 
 174  I have longed for Thy salvation, O LORD; and Thy law is my delight. 
 175  Let my soul live, and it shall praise Thee; and let Thine ordinances help me. 
 176  I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek Thy servant; for I have not forgotten Thy commandments. 





























