 1 ¶ A Psalm of David. Strive, O LORD, with them that strive with me; fight against them that fight against me. 
 2  Take hold of shield and buckler, and rise up to my help. 
 3  Draw out also the spear, and the battle-axe, against them that pursue me; say unto my soul: 'I am Thy salvation.' 
 4  Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion that seek after my soul; let them be turned back and be abashed that devise my hurt. 
 5  Let them be as chaff before the wind, the angel of the LORD thrusting them. 
 6  Let their way be dark and slippery, the angel of the LORD pursuing them. 
 7  For without cause have they hid for me the pit, even their net, without cause have they digged for my soul. 
 8  Let destruction come upon him unawares; and let his net that he hath hid catch himself; with destruction let him fall therein. 
 9  And my soul shall be joyful in the LORD; it shall rejoice in His salvation. 
 10  All my bones shall say: 'LORD, who is like unto Thee, who deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, yea, the poor and the needy from him that spoileth him?' 
 11 ¶ Unrighteous witnesses rise up; they ask me of things that I know not. 
 12  They repay me evil for good; bereavement is come to my soul. 
 13  But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth, I afflicted my soul with fasting; and my prayer, may it return into mine own bosom. 
 14  I went about as though it had been my friend or my brother; I bowed down mournful, as one that mourneth for his mother. 
 15  But when I halt they rejoice, and gather themselves together; the abjects gather themselves together against me, and those whom I know not; they tear me, and cease not; 
 16  With the profanest mockeries of backbiting they gnash at me with their teeth. 
 17 ¶ Lord, how long wilt Thou look on? Rescue my soul from their destructions, mine only one from the lions. 
 18  I will give Thee thanks in the great congregation; I will praise Thee among a numerous people. 
 19  Let not them that are wrongfully mine enemies rejoice over me; neither let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause. 
 20  For they speak not peace; but they devise deceitful matters against them that are quiet in the land. 
 21  Yea, they open their mouth wide against me; they say: 'Aha, aha, our eye hath seen it.' 
 22  Thou hast seen, O LORD; keep not silence; O Lord, be not far from me. 
 23  Rouse Thee, and awake to my judgment, even unto my cause, my God and my Lord. 
 24  Judge me, O LORD my God, according to Thy righteousness; and let them not rejoice over me. 
 25  Let them not say in their heart: 'Aha, we have our desire'; let them not say: 'We have swallowed him up.' 
 26  Let them be ashamed and abashed together that rejoice at my hurt; let them be clothed with shame and confusion that magnify themselves against me. 
 27  Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that delight in my righteousness; yea, let them say continually: 'Magnified be the LORD, who delighteth in the peace of His servant.' 
 28  And my tongue shall speak of Thy righteousness, and of Thy praise all the day. 





























