 1 ¶ In Thee, O LORD, have I taken refuge; let me never be ashamed. 
 2  Deliver me in Thy righteousness, and rescue me; incline Thine ear unto me, and save me. 
 3  Be Thou to me a sheltering rock, whereunto I may continually resort, which Thou hast appointed to save me; for Thou art my rock and my fortress. 
 4  O my God, rescue me out of the hand of the wicked, out of the grasp of the unrighteous and ruthless man. 
 5  For Thou art my hope; O Lord GOD, my trust from my youth. 
 6  Upon Thee have I stayed myself from birth; Thou art he that took me out of my mother's womb; my praise is continually of Thee. 
 7  I am as a wonder unto many; but Thou art my strong refuge. 
 8  My mouth shall be filled with Thy praise, and with Thy glory all the day. 
 9  Cast me not off in the time of old age; when my strength faileth, forsake me not. 
 10  For mine enemies speak concerning me, and they that watch for my soul take counsel together, 
 11  Saying: 'God hath forsaken him; pursue and take him; for there is none to deliver.' 
 12  O God, be not far from me; O my God, make haste to help me. 
 13  Let them be ashamed and consumed that are adversaries to my soul; let them be covered with reproach and confusion that seek my hurt. 
 14 ¶ But as for me, I will hope continually, and will praise Thee yet more and more. 
 15  My mouth shall tell of Thy righteousness, and of Thy salvation all the day; for I know not the numbers thereof. 
 16  I will come with Thy mighty acts, O Lord GOD; I will make mention of Thy righteousness, even of Thine only. 
 17  O God, Thou hast taught me from my youth; and until now do I declare Thy wondrous works. 
 18  And even unto old age and hoary hairs, O God, forsake me not; until I have declared Thy strength unto the next generation, Thy might to every one that is to come. 
 19  Thy righteousness also, O God, which reacheth unto high heaven; Thou who hast done great things, O God, who is like unto Thee? 
 20  Thou, who hast made me to see many and sore troubles, wilt quicken me again, and bring me up again from the depths of the earth. 
 21  Thou wilt increase my greatness, and turn and comfort me. 
 22  I also will give thanks unto Thee with the psaltery, even unto Thy truth, O my God; I will sing praises unto Thee with the harp, O Thou Holy One of Israel. 
 23  My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing praises unto Thee; and my soul, which Thou hast redeemed. 
 24  My tongue also shall tell of Thy righteousness all the day; for they are ashamed, for they are abashed, that seek my hurt. 





























