 1 ¶ O LORD, Thou God to whom vengeance belongeth, Thou God to whom vengeance belongeth, shine forth. 
 2  Lift up Thyself, Thou Judge of the earth; render to the proud their recompense. 
 3  LORD, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked exult? 
 4  They gush out, they speak arrogancy; all the workers of iniquity bear themselves loftily. 
 5  They crush Thy people, O LORD, and afflict Thy heritage. 
 6  They slay the widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless. 
 7  And they say: 'The LORD will not see, neither will the God of Jacob give heed.' 
 8  Consider, ye brutish among the people; and ye fools, when will ye understand? 
 9  He that planted the ear, shall He not hear? He that formed the eye, shall He not see? 
 10  He that instructeth nations, shall not He correct? even He that teacheth man knowledge? 
 11  The LORD knoweth the thoughts of man, that they are vanity. 
 12 ¶ Happy is the man whom Thou instructest, O LORD, and teachest out of Thy law; 
 13  That Thou mayest give him rest from the days of evil, until the pit be digged for the wicked. 
 14  For the LORD will not cast off His people, neither will He forsake His inheritance. 
 15  For right shall return unto justice, and all the upright in heart shall follow it. 
 16  Who will rise up for me against the evil-doers? Who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity? 
 17  Unless the LORD had been my help, my soul had soon dwelt in silence. 
 18  If I say: 'My foot slippeth', Thy mercy, O LORD, holdeth me up. 
 19  When my cares are many within me, Thy comforts delight my soul. 
 20  Shall the seat of wickedness have fellowship with Thee, which frameth mischief by statute? 
 21  They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous, and condemn innocent blood. 
 22  But the LORD hath been my high tower, and my God the rock of my refuge. 
 23  And He hath brought upon them their own iniquity, and will cut them off in their own evil; the LORD our God will cut them off. 





























