 1 ¶ For the Leader. A Psalm of David. O God of my praise, keep not silence; 
 2  For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of deceit have they opened against me; they have spoken unto me with a lying tongue. 
 3  They compassed me about also with words of hatred, and fought against me without a cause. 
 4  In return for my love they are my adversaries; but I am all prayer. 
 5  And they have laid upon me evil for good, and hatred for my love: 
 6 ¶ 'Set Thou a wicked man over him; and let an adversary stand at his right hand. 
 7  When he is judged, let him go forth condemned; and let his prayer be turned into sin. 
 8  Let his days be few; let another take his charge. 
 9  Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow. 
 10  Let his children be vagabonds, and beg; and let them seek their bread out of their desolate places. 
 11  Let the creditor distrain all that he hath; and let strangers make spoil of his labour. 
 12  Let there be none to extend kindness unto him; neither let there be any to be gracious unto his fatherless children. 
 13  Let his posterity be cut off; in the generation following let their name be blotted out. 
 14  Let the iniquity of his fathers be brought to remembrance unto the LORD; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. 
 15  Let them be before the LORD continually, that He may cut off the memory of them from the earth. 
 16  Because that he remembered not to do kindness, but persecuted the poor and needy man, and the broken in heart he was ready to slay. 
 17  Yea, he loved cursing, and it came unto him; and he delighted not in blessing, and it is far from him. 
 18  He clothed himself also with cursing as with his raiment, and it is come into his inward parts like water, and like oil into his bones. 
 19  Let it be unto him as the garment which he putteth on, and for the girdle wherewith he is girded continually.' 
 20  This would mine adversaries effect from the LORD, and they that speak evil against my soul. 
 21 ¶ But Thou, O GOD the Lord, deal with me for Thy name's sake; because Thy mercy is good, deliver Thou me. 
 22  For I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me. 
 23  I am gone like the shadow when it lengtheneth; I am shaken off as the locust. 
 24  My knees totter through fasting; and my flesh is lean, and hath no fatness. 
 25  I am become also a taunt unto them; when they see me, they shake their head. 
 26  Help me, O LORD my God; O save me according to Thy mercy; 
 27  That they may know that this is Thy hand; that Thou, LORD, hast done it. 
 28  Let them curse, but bless Thou; when they arise, they shall be put to shame, but Thy servant shall rejoice. 
 29  Mine adversaries shall be clothed with confusion, and shall put on their own shame as a robe. 
 30  I will give great thanks unto the LORD with my mouth; yea, I will praise Him among the multitude; 
 31  Because He standeth at the right hand of the needy, to save him from them that judge his soul. 





























