 1 ¶ Rejoice in the LORD, O ye righteous, praise is comely for the upright. 
 2  Give thanks unto the LORD with harp, sing praises unto Him with the psaltery of ten strings. 
 3  Sing unto Him a new song; play skilfully amid shouts of joy. 
 4  For the word of the LORD is upright; and all His work is done in faithfulness. 
 5  He loveth righteousness and justice; the earth is full of the lovingkindness of the LORD. 
 6  By the word of the LORD were the heavens made; and all the host of them by the breath of His mouth. 
 7  He gathereth the waters of the sea together as a heap; He layeth up the deeps in storehouses. 
 8  Let all the earth fear the LORD; let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of Him. 
 9  For He spoke, and it was; He commanded, and it stood. 
 10  The LORD bringeth the counsel of the nations to nought; He maketh the thoughts of the peoples to be of no effect. 
 11  The counsel of the LORD standeth for ever, the thoughts of His heart to all generations. 
 12 ¶ Happy is the nation whose God is the LORD; the people whom He hath chosen for His own inheritance. 
 13  The LORD looketh from heaven; He beholdeth all the sons of men; 
 14  From the place of His habitation He looketh intently upon all the inhabitants of the earth; 
 15  He that fashioneth the hearts of them all, that considereth all their doings. 
 16  A king is not saved by the multitude of a host; a mighty man is not delivered by great strength. 
 17  A horse is a vain thing for safety; neither doth it afford escape by its great strength. 
 18  Behold, the eye of the LORD is toward them that fear Him, toward them that wait for His mercy; 
 19  To deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in famine. 
 20  Our soul hath waited for the LORD; He is our help and our shield. 
 21  For in Him doth our heart rejoice, because we have trusted in His holy name. 
 22  Let Thy mercy, O LORD, be upon us, according as we have waited for Thee. 





























