 1 ¶ A Psalm of Solomon. Give the king Thy judgments, O God, and Thy righteousness unto the king's son; 
 2 ¶ That he may judge Thy people with righteousness, and Thy poor with justice. 
 3  Let the mountains bear peace to the people, and the hills, through righteousness. 
 4  May he judge the poor of the people, and save the children of the needy, and crush the oppressor. 
 5  They shall fear Thee while the sun endureth, and so long as the moon, throughout all generations. 
 6  May he come down like rain upon the mown grass, as showers that water the earth. 
 7  In his days let the righteous flourish, and abundance of peace, till the moon be no more. 
 8  May he have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the River unto the ends of the earth. 
 9  Let them that dwell in the wilderness bow before him; and his enemies lick the dust. 
 10  The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall render tribute; the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts. 
 11  Yea, all kings shall prostrate themselves before him; all nations shall serve him. 
 12  For he will deliver the needy when he crieth; the poor also, and him that hath no helper. 
 13  He will have pity on the poor and needy, and the souls of the needy he will save. 
 14  He will redeem their soul from oppression and violence, and precious will their blood be in his sight. 
 15  That they may live, and that he may give them of the gold of Sheba, that they may pray for him continually, yea, bless him all the day. 
 16  May he be as a rich cornfield in the land upon the top of the mountains; may his fruit rustle like Lebanon; and may they blossom out of the city like grass of the earth. 
 17  May his name endure for ever; may his name be continued as long as the sun; may men also bless themselves by him; may all nations call him happy. 
 18 ¶ Blessed be the LORD God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things; 
 19  And blessed be His glorious name for ever; and let the whole earth be filled with His glory. Amen, and Amen. 
 20  The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended. BOOK III 





























