 1  Bless the LORD, O my soul. O LORD my God, Thou art very great; Thou art clothed with glory and majesty. 
 2  Who coverest Thyself with light as with a garment, who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain; 
 3  Who layest the beams of Thine upper chambers in the waters, who makest the clouds Thy chariot, who walkest upon the wings of the wind; 
 4  Who makest winds Thy messengers, the flaming fire Thy ministers. 
 5  Who didst establish the earth upon its foundations, that it should not be moved for ever and ever; 
 6  Thou didst cover it with the deep as with a vesture; the waters stood above the mountains. 
 7  At Thy rebuke they fled, at the voice of Thy thunder they hasted away-- 
 8  The mountains rose, the valleys sank down--unto the place which Thou hadst founded for them; 
 9  Thou didst set a bound which they should not pass over, that they might not return to cover the earth. 
 10  Who sendest forth springs into the valleys; they run between the mountains; 
 11  They give drink to every beast of the field, the wild asses quench their thirst. 
 12  Beside them dwell the fowl of the heaven, from among the branches they sing. 
 13  Who waterest the mountains from Thine upper chambers; the earth is full of the fruit of Thy works. 
 14  Who causeth the grass to spring up for the cattle, and herb for the service of man; to bring forth bread out of the earth, 
 15  And wine that maketh glad the heart of man, making the face brighter than oil, and bread that stayeth man's heart. 
 16  The trees of the LORD have their fill, the cedars of Lebanon, which He hath planted; 
 17  Wherein the birds make their nests; as for the stork, the fir-trees are her house. 
 18  The high mountains are for the wild goats; the rocks are a refuge for the conies. 
 19  Who appointedst the moon for seasons; the sun knoweth his going down. 
 20  Thou makest darkness, and it is night, wherein all the beasts of the forest do creep forth. 
 21  The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their food from God. 
 22  The sun ariseth, they slink away, and couch in their dens. 
 23  Man goeth forth unto his work and to his labour until the evening. 
 24  How manifold are Thy works, O LORD! In wisdom hast Thou made them all; the earth is full of Thy creatures. 
 25  Yonder sea, great and wide, therein are creeping things innumerable, living creatures, both small and great. 
 26  There go the ships; there is leviathan, whom Thou hast formed to sport therein. 
 27  All of them wait for Thee, that Thou mayest give them their food in due season. 
 28  Thou givest it unto them, they gather it; Thou openest Thy hand, they are satisfied with good. 
 29  Thou hidest Thy face, they vanish; Thou withdrawest their breath, they perish, and return to their dust. 
 30  Thou sendest forth Thy spirit, they are created; and Thou renewest the face of the earth. 
 31  May the glory of the LORD endure for ever; let the LORD rejoice in His works! 
 32  Who looketh on the earth, and it trembleth; He toucheth the mountains, and they smoke. 
 33  I will sing unto the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have any being. 
 34  Let my musing be sweet unto Him; as for me, I will rejoice in the LORD. 
 35  Let sinners cease out of the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless the LORD, O my soul. Hallelujah. 





























