 1 ¶ And king Solomon was king over all Israel. 
 2  And these were the princes whom he had: Azariah the son of Zadok, the priest; 
 3  Elihoreph and Ahijah, the sons of Shisha, scribes; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud, the recorder; 
 4  and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the host; and Zadok and Abiathar were priests; 
 5  and Azariah the son of Nathan was over the officers; and Zabud the son of Nathan was chief minister and the king's friend; 
 6  and Ahishar was over the household; and Adoniram the son of Abda was over the levy. 
 7  And Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel, who provided victuals for the king and his household: each man had to make provision for a month in the year. 
 8  And these are their names: The son of Hur, in the hill-country of Ephraim; 
 9  the son of Deker, in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and Beth-shemesh, and Elon-beth-hanan; 
 10  the son of Hesed, in Arubboth; to him pertained Socoh, and all the land of Hepher; 
 11  the son of Abinadab, in all the region of Dor; he had Taphath the daughter of Solomon to wife; 
 12  Baana the son of Ahilud, in Taanach and Megiddo, and all Beth-shean which is beside Zarethan, beneath Jezreel, from Beth-shean to Abel-meholah, as far as beyond Jokmeam; 
 13  the son of Geber, in Ramoth-gilead; to him pertained the villages of Jair the son of Manasseh, which are in Gilead; even to him pertained the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, threescore great cities with walls and brazen bars; 
 14  Ahinadab the son of Iddo, in Mahanaim; 
 15  Ahimaaz, in Naphtali; he also took Basemath the daughter of Solomon to wife; 
 16  Baana the son of Hushai, in Asher and Bealoth; 
 17  Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar; 
 18  Shimei the son of Ela, in Benjamin; 
 19  Geber the son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, the country of Sihon king of the Amorites and of Og king of Bashan; and one officer that was over all the officers in the land. 
 20 ¶ Judah and Israel were many, as the sand which is by the sea in multitude, eating and drinking and making merry. 
 21  (5:1) And Solomon ruled over all the kingdoms from the River unto the land of the Philistines, and unto the border of Egypt; they brought presents, and served Solomon all the days of his life. 
 22  (5:2) And Solomon's provision for one day was thirty measures of fine flour, and threescore measures of meal; 
 23  (5:3) ten fat oxen, and twenty oxen out of the pastures, and a hundred sheep, beside harts, and gazelles, and roebucks, and fatted fowl. 
 24  (5:4) For he had dominion over all the region on this side the River, from Tiphsah even to Gaza, over all the kings on this side the River; and he had peace on all sides round about him. 
 25  (5:5) And Judah and Israel dwelt safely, every man under his vine and under his fig-tree, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, all the days of Solomon. 
 26  (5:6) And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen. 
 27  (5:7) And those officers provided victual for king Solomon, and for all that came unto king Solomon's table, every man in his month; they let nothing be lacking. 
 28  (5:8) Barley also and straw for the horses and swift steeds brought they unto the place where it should be, every man according to his charge. 
 29 ¶ (5:9) And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding exceeding much, and largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the sea-shore. 
 30  (5:10) And Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of the east, and all the wisdom of Egypt. 
 31  (5:11) For he was wiser than all men: than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol; and his fame was in all the nations round about. 
 32  (5:12) And he spoke three thousand proverbs; and his songs were a thousand and five. 
 33  (5:13) And he spoke of trees, from the cedar that is in Lebanon even unto the hyssop that springeth out of the wall; he spoke also of beasts, and of fowl, and of creeping things, and of fishes. 
 34  (5:14) And there came of all peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all kings of the earth, who had heard of his wisdom. 





























