 1 ¶ And the child Samuel ministered unto the LORD before Eli. And the word of the LORD was precious in those days; there was no frequent vision. 
 2  And it came to pass at that time, when Eli was laid down in his place--now his eyes had begun to wax dim, that he could not see-- 
 3  and the lamp of God was not yet gone out, and Samuel was laid down to sleep in the temple of the LORD, where the ark of God was, 
 4  that the LORD called Samuel; and he said: 'Here am I.' 
 5  And he ran unto Eli, and said: 'Here am I; for thou didst call me.' And he said: 'I called not; lie down again.' And he went and lay down. 
 6  And the LORD called yet again Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said: 'Here am I; for thou didst call me.' And he answered: 'I called not, my son; lie down again.' 
 7  Now Samuel did not yet know the LORD, neither was the word of the LORD yet revealed unto him. 
 8  And the LORD called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli, and said: 'Here am I; for thou didst call me.' And Eli perceived that the LORD was calling the child. 
 9  Therefore Eli said unto Samuel: 'Go, lie down; and it shall be, if thou be called, that thou shalt say: Speak, LORD; for Thy servant heareth.' So Samuel went and lay down in his place. 
 10  And the LORD came, and stood, and called as at other times: 'Samuel, Samuel.' Then Samuel said: 'Speak; for Thy servant heareth.' 
 11 ¶ And the LORD said to Samuel: 'Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle. 
 12  In that day I will perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from the beginning even unto the end. 
 13  For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever, for the iniquity, in that he knew that his sons did bring a curse upon themselves, and he rebuked them not. 
 14  And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be expiated with sacrifice nor offering for ever.' 
 15  And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of the LORD. And Samuel feared to tell Eli the vision. 
 16  Then Eli called Samuel, and said: 'Samuel, my son.' And he said: `Here am I.' 
 17  And he said: 'What is the thing that He hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me, God do so to thee, and more also, if thou hide any thing from me of all the things that He spoke unto thee.' 
 18  And Samuel told him all the words, and hid nothing from him. And he said: 'It is the LORD; let Him do what seemeth Him good.' 
 19 ¶ And Samuel grew, and the LORD was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground. 
 20  And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of the LORD. 
 21  And the LORD appeared again in Shiloh; for the LORD revealed Himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the LORD. 





























