 1 ¶ And after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them; and David took Metheg-ammah out of the hand of the Philistines. 
 2  And he smote Moab, and measured them with the line, making them to lie down on the ground; and he measured two lines to put to death, and one full line to keep alive. And the Moabites became servants to David, and brought presents. 
 3  David smote also Hadadezer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to establish his dominion at the river Euphrates. 
 4  And David took from him a thousand and seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen; and David houghed all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for a hundred chariots. 
 5  And when the Arameans of Damascus came to succour Hadadezer king of Zobah, David smote of the Arameans two and twenty thousand men. 
 6  Then David put garrisons in Aram of Damascus; and the Arameans became servants to David, and brought presents. And the LORD gave victory to David whithersoever he went. 
 7  And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. 
 8  And from Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, king David took exceeding much brass. 
 9 ¶ And when Toi king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadadezer, 
 10  then Toi sent Joram his son unto king David, to salute him, and to bless him--because he had fought against Hadadezer and smitten him; for Hadadezer had wars with Toi--and he brought with him vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of brass. 
 11  These also did king David dedicate unto the LORD, with the silver and gold that he dedicated of all the nations which he subdued: 
 12  of Aram, and of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines, and of Amalek, and of the spoil of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah. 
 13  And David got him a name when he returned from smiting the Arameans in the Valley of Salt, even eighteen thousand men. 
 14  And he put garrisons in Edom; throughout all Edom put he garrisons, and all the Edomites became servants to David. And the LORD gave victory to David whithersoever he went. 
 15 ¶ And David reigned over all Israel; and David executed justice and righteousness unto all his people. 
 16  And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder; 
 17  and Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, were priests; and Seraiah was scribe; 
 18  and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David's sons were chief ministers. 





























