 1  And this is the blessing wherewith Moses the man of God blessed the children of Israel before his death. 
 2  And he said: The LORD came from Sinai, and rose from Seir unto them; He shined forth from mount Paran, and He came from the myriads holy, at His right hand was a fiery law unto them. 
 3  Yea, He loveth the peoples, all His holy ones--they are in Thy hand; and they sit down at Thy feet, receiving of Thy words. 
 4  Moses commanded us a law, an inheritance of the congregation of Jacob. 
 5  And there was a king in Jeshurun, when the heads of the people were gathered, all the tribes of Israel together. 
 6  Let Reuben live, and not die in that his men become few. 
 7  And this for Judah, and he said: Hear, LORD, the voice of Judah, and bring him in unto his people; his hands shall contend for him, and Thou shalt be a help against his adversaries. 
 8  And of Levi he said: Thy Thummim and Thy Urim be with Thy holy one, whom Thou didst prove at Massah, with whom Thou didst strive at the waters of Meribah; 
 9  Who said of his father, and of his mother: 'I have not seen him'; neither did he acknowledge his brethren, nor knew he his own children; for they have observed Thy word, and keep Thy covenant. 
 10  They shall teach Jacob Thine ordinances, and Israel Thy law; they shall put incense before Thee, and whole burnt-offering upon Thine altar. 
 11  Bless, LORD, his substance, and accept the work of his hands; smite through the loins of them that rise up against him, and of them that hate him, that they rise not again. 
 12  Of Benjamin he said: The beloved of the LORD shall dwell in safety by Him; He covereth him all the day, and He dwelleth between his shoulders. 
 13  And of Joseph he said: Blessed of the LORD be his land; for the precious things of heaven, for the dew, and for the deep that coucheth beneath, 
 14  And for the precious things of the fruits of the sun, and for the precious things of the yield of the moons, 
 15  And for the tops of the ancient mountains, and for the precious things of the everlasting hills, 
 16  And for the precious things of the earth and the fulness thereof, and the good will of Him that dwelt in the bush; let the blessing come upon the head of Joseph, and upon the crown of the head of him that is prince among his brethren. 
 17  His firstling bullock, majesty is his; and his horns are the horns of the wild-ox; with them he shall gore the peoples all of them, even the ends of the earth; and they are the ten thousands of Ephraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh. 
 18  And of Zebulun he said: Rejoice, Zebulun, in thy going out, and, Issachar, in thy tents. 
 19  They shall call peoples unto the mountain; there shall they offer sacrifices of righteousness; for they shall suck the abundance of the seas, and the hidden treasures of the sand. 
 20  And of Gad he said: Blessed be He that enlargeth Gad; he dwelleth as a lioness, and teareth the arm, yea, the crown of the head. 
 21  And he chose a first part for himself, for there a portion of a ruler was reserved; and there came the heads of the people, he executed the righteousness of the LORD, and His ordinances with Israel. 
 22  And of Dan he said: Dan is a lion's whelp, that leapeth forth from Bashan. 
 23  And of Naphtali he said: O Naphtali, satisfied with favour, and full with the blessing of the LORD: possess thou the sea and the south. 
 24  And of Asher he said: Blessed be Asher above sons; let him be the favoured of his brethren, and let him dip his foot in oil. 
 25  Iron and brass shall be thy bars; and as thy days, so shall thy strength be. 
 26  There is none like unto God, O Jeshurun, who rideth upon the heaven as thy help, and in His excellency on the skies. 
 27  The eternal God is a dwelling-place, and underneath are the everlasting arms; and He thrust out the enemy from before thee, and said: 'Destroy.' 
 28  And Israel dwelleth in safety, the fountain of Jacob alone, in a land of corn and wine; yea, his heavens drop down dew. 
 29  Happy art thou, O Israel, who is like unto thee? a people saved by the LORD, the shield of thy help, and that is the sword of thy excellency! And thine enemies shall dwindle away before thee; and thou shalt tread upon their high places. 





























