 1 ¶ And Moses called unto all Israel, and said unto them: Hear, O Israel, the statutes and the ordinances which I speak in your ears this day, that ye may learn them, and observe to do them. 
 2  The LORD our God made a covenant with us in Horeb. 
 3  The LORD made not this covenant with our fathers, but with us, even us, who are all of us here alive this day. 
 4  The LORD spoke with you face to face in the mount out of the midst of the fire-- 
 5  I stood between the LORD and you at that time, to declare unto you the word of the LORD; for ye were afraid because of the fire, and went not up into the mount--saying: 
 6 ¶ I am the LORD thy God, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. 
 7  Thou shalt have no other gods before Me. 
 8  Thou shalt not make unto thee a graven image, even any manner of likeness, of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. 
 9  Thou shalt not bow down unto them, nor serve them; for I the LORD thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, and upon the third and upon the fourth generation of them that hate Me, 
 10  and showing mercy unto the thousandth generation of them that love Me and keep My commandments. 
 11  Thou shalt not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain; for the LORD will not hold him guiltless that taketh His name in vain. 
 12  Observe the sabbath day, to keep it holy, as the LORD thy God commanded thee. 
 13  Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work; 
 14  but the seventh day is a sabbath unto the LORD thy God, in it thou shalt not do any manner of work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy man-servant, nor thy maid-servant, nor thine ox, nor thine ass, nor any of thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates; that thy man-servant and thy maid-servant may rest as well as thou. 
 15  And thou shalt remember that thou was a servant in the land of Egypt, and the LORD thy God brought thee out thence by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm; therefore the LORD thy God commanded thee to keep the sabbath day. 
 16  Honour thy father and thy mother, as the LORD thy God commanded thee; that thy days may be long, and that it may go well with thee, upon the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee. 
 17  Thou shalt not murder. 
 18  (5:17) Neither shalt thou commit adultery. 
 19  (5:17) Neither shalt thou steal. 
 20  (5:17) Neither shalt thou bear false witness against thy neighbour. 
 21  (5:18) Neither shalt thou covet thy neighbour's wife; neither shalt thou desire thy neighbour's house, his field, or his man-servant, or his maid-servant, his ox, or his ass, or any thing that is thy neighbour's. 
 22  (5:19) These words the LORD spoke unto all your assembly in the mount out of the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness, with a great voice, and it went on no more. And He wrote them upon two tables of stone, and gave them unto me. 
 23 ¶ (5:20) And it came to pass, when ye heard the voice out of the midst of the darkness, while the mountain did burn with fire, that ye came near unto me, even all the heads of your tribes, and your elders; 
 24  (5:21) and ye said: 'Behold, the LORD our God hath shown us His glory and His greatness, and we have heard His voice out of the midst of the fire; we have seen this day that God doth speak with man, and he liveth. 
 25  (5:22) Now therefore why should we die? for this great fire will consume us; if we hear the voice of the LORD our God any more, then we shall die. 
 26  (5:23) For who is there of all flesh, that hath heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as we have, and lived? 
 27  (5:24) Go thou near, and hear all that the LORD our God may say; and thou shalt speak unto us all that the LORD our God may speak unto thee; and we will hear it and do it.' 
 28  (5:25) And the LORD heard the voice of your words, when ye spoke unto me; and the LORD said unto me: 'I have heard the voice of the words of this people, which they have spoken unto thee; they have well said all that they have spoken. 
 29  (5:26) Oh that they had such a heart as this alway, to fear Me, and keep all My commandments, that it might be well with them, and with their children for ever! 
 30  (5:27) Go say to them: Return ye to your tents. 
 31  (5:28) But as for thee, stand thou here by Me, and I will speak unto thee all the commandment, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which thou shalt teach them, that they may do them in the land which I give them to possess it.' 
 32  (5:29) Ye shall observe to do therefore as the LORD your God hath commanded you; ye shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left. 
 33  (5:30) Ye shall walk in all the way which the LORD your God hath commanded you, that ye may live, and that it may be well with you, and that ye may prolong your days in the land which ye shall possess. 





























