 1 ¶ Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying: 
 2  'And thou, son of man, thus saith the Lord GOD concerning the land of Israel: An end! the end is come upon the four corners of the land. 
 3  Now is the end upon thee, and I will send Mine anger upon thee, and will judge thee according to thy ways; and I will bring upon thee all thine abominations. 
 4  And Mine eye shall not spare thee, neither will I have pity; but I will bring thy ways upon thee, and thine abominations shall be in the midst of thee; and ye shall know that I am the LORD. 
 5  Thus saith the Lord GOD: An evil, a singular evil, behold, it cometh. 
 6  An end is come, the end is come, it awaketh against thee; behold, it cometh. 
 7  The turn is come unto thee, O inhabitant of the land; the time is come, the day of tumult is near, and not of joyful shouting upon the mountains. 
 8  Now will I shortly pour out My fury upon thee, and spend Mine anger upon thee, and will judge thee according to thy ways; and I will bring upon thee all thine abominations. 
 9  And Mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity; I will bring upon thee according to thy ways, and thine abominations shall be in the midst of thee; and ye shall know that I the LORD do smite. 
 10  Behold the day; behold, it cometh; the turn is come forth; the rod hath blossomed, arrogancy hath budded. 
 11  Violence is risen up into a rod of wickedness; nought cometh from them, nor from their tumult, nor from their turmoil, neither is there eminency among them. 
 12  The time is come, the day draweth near; let not the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn; for wrath is upon all the multitude thereof. 
 13  For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, although they be yet alive; for the vision is touching the whole multitude thereof, which shall not return; neither shall any stand possessed of the iniquity of his life. 
 14  They have blown the horn, and have made all ready, but none goeth to the battle; for My wrath is upon all the multitude thereof. 
 15  The sword is without, and the pestilence and the famine within; he that is in the field shall die with the sword, and he that is in the city, famine and pestilence shall devour him. 
 16 ¶ But they that shall at all escape of them, shall be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them moaning, every one in his iniquity. 
 17  All hands shall be slack, and all knees shall drip with water. 
 18  They shall also gird themselves with sackcloth, and horror shall cover them; and shame shall be upon all faces, and baldness upon all their heads. 
 19  They shall cast their silver in the streets, and their gold shall be as an unclean thing; their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the LORD; they shall not satisfy their souls, neither fill their bowels; because it hath been the stumblingblock of their iniquity. 
 20  And as for the beauty of their ornament, which was set for a pride, they made the images of their abominations and their detestable things thereof; therefore have I made it unto them as an unclean thing. 
 21  And I will give it into the hands of the strangers for a prey, and to the wicked of the earth for a spoil; and they shall profane it. 
 22  I will also turn My face from them, and they shall profane My secret place; and robbers shall enter into it, and profane it. 
 23 ¶ Make the chain; for the land is full of bloody crimes, and the city is full of violence. 
 24  Wherefore I will bring the worst of the nations, and they shall possess their houses; I will also make the pride of the strong to cease; and their holy places shall be profaned. 
 25  Horror cometh; and they shall seek peace, and there shall be none. 
 26  Calamity shall come upon calamity, and rumour shall be upon rumour; and they shall seek a vision of the prophet, and instruction shall perish from the priest, and counsel from the elders. 
 27  The king shall mourn, and the prince shall be clothed with appalment, and the hands of the people of the land shall be enfeebled; I will do unto them after their way, and according to their deserts will I judge them; and they shall know that I am the LORD.' 





























