 1 ¶ The hand of the LORD was upon me, and the LORD carried me out in a spirit, and set me down in the midst of the valley, and it was full of bones; 
 2  and He caused me to pass by them round about, and, behold, there were very many in the open valley; and, lo, they were very dry. 
 3  And He said unto me: 'Son of man, can these bones live?' And I answered: 'O Lord GOD, Thou knowest.' 
 4  Then He said unto me: 'Prophesy over these bones, and say unto them: O ye dry bones, hear the word of the LORD: 
 5  Thus saith the Lord GOD unto these bones: Behold, I will cause breath to enter into you, and ye shall live. 
 6  And I will lay sinews upon you, and will bring up flesh upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and ye shall live; and ye shall know that I am the LORD.' 
 7  So I prophesied as I was commanded; and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and behold a commotion, and the bones came together, bone to its bone. 
 8  And I beheld, and, lo, there were sinews upon them, and flesh came up, and skin covered them above; but there was no breath in them. 
 9  Then said He unto me: 'Prophesy unto the breath, prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath: Thus saith the Lord GOD: Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live.' 
 10  So I prophesied as He commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived, and stood up upon their feet, an exceeding great host. 
 11  Then He said unto me: 'Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel; behold, they say: Our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost; we are clean cut off. 
 12  Therefore prophesy, and say unto them: Thus saith the Lord GOD: Behold, I will open your graves, and cause you to come up out of your graves, O My people; and I will bring you into the land of Israel. 
 13  And ye shall know that I am the LORD, when I have opened your graves, and caused you to come up out of your graves, O My people. 
 14  And I will put My spirit in you, and ye shall live, and I will place you in your own land; and ye shall know that I the LORD have spoken, and performed it, saith the LORD.' 
 15 ¶ And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying: 
 16  'And thou, son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it: For Judah, and for the children of Israel his companions; then take another stick, and write upon it: For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and of all the house of Israel his companions; 
 17  and join them for thee one to another into one stick, that they may become one in thy hand. 
 18  And when the children of thy people shall speak unto thee, saying: Wilt thou not tell us what thou meanest by these? 
 19  say into them: Thus saith the Lord GOD: Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel his companions; and I will put them unto him together with the stick of Judah, and make them one stick, and they shall be one in My hand. 
 20  And the sticks whereon thou writest shall be in thy hand before their eyes. 
 21  And say unto them: Thus saith the Lord GOD: Behold, I will take the children of Israel from among the nations, whither they are gone, and will gather them on every side, and bring them into their own land; 
 22  and I will make them one nation in the land, upon the mountains of Israel, and one king shall be king to them all; and they shall be no more two nations, neither shall they be divided into two kingdoms any more at all; 
 23  neither shall they defile themselves any more with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with any of their transgressions; but I will save them out of all their dwelling-places, wherein they have sinned, and will cleanse them; so shall they be My people, and I will be their God. 
 24  And My servant David shall be king over them, and they all shall have one shepherd; they shall also walk in Mine ordinances, and observe My statutes, and do them. 
 25  And they shall dwell in the land that I have given unto Jacob My servant, wherein your fathers dwelt; and they shall dwell therein, they, and their children, and their children's children, for ever; and David My servant shall be their prince for ever. 
 26  Moreover I will make a covenant of peace with them--it shall be an everlasting covenant with them; and I will establish them, and multiply them, and will set My sanctuary in the midst of them for ever. 
 27  My dwelling-place also shall be over them; and I will be their God, and they shall be My people. 
 28  And the nations shall know that I am the LORD that sanctify Israel, when My sanctuary shall be in the midst of them for ever.' 





























