 1 ¶ Then a spirit lifted me up, and brought me unto the east gate of the LORD'S house, which looketh eastward; and behold at the door of the gate five and twenty men; and I saw in the midst of them Jaazaniah the son of Azzur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people. 
 2  And He said unto me: 'Son of man, these are the men that devise iniquity, and that give wicked counsel in this city; 
 3  that say: The time is not near to build houses! this city is the caldron, and we are the flesh. 
 4  Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, O son of man.' 
 5  And the spirit of the LORD fell upon me, and He said unto me: 'Speak: Thus saith the LORD: Thus have ye said, O house of Israel; for I know the things that come into your mind. 
 6  Ye have multiplied your slain in this city, and ye have filled the streets thereof with the slain. 
 7  Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD: Your slain whom ye have laid in the midst of it, they are the flesh, and this city is the caldron; but ye shall be brought forth out of the midst of it. 
 8  Ye have feared the sword; and the sword will I bring upon you, saith the Lord GOD. 
 9  And I will bring you forth out of the midst thereof, and deliver you into the hands of strangers, and will execute judgments among you. 
 10  Ye shall fall by the sword: I will judge you upon the border of Israel; and ye shall know that I am the LORD. 
 11  Though this city shall not be your caldron, ye shall be the flesh in the midst thereof; I will judge you upon the border of Israel; 
 12  and ye shall know that I am the LORD; for ye have not walked in My statutes, neither have ye executed Mine ordinances, but have done after the ordinances of the nations that are round about you.' 
 13  And it came to pass, when I prophesied, that Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. Then fell I down upon my face, and cried with a loud voice, and said: 'Ah Lord GOD! wilt Thou make a full end of the remnant of Israel?' 
 14 ¶ And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying: 
 15  'Son of man, as for thy brethren, even thy brethren, the men of thy kindred, and all the house of Israel, all of them, concerning whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said: Get you far from the LORD! unto us is this land given for a possession; 
 16  therefore say: Thus saith the Lord GOD: Although I have removed them far off among the nations, and although I have scattered them among the countries, yet have I been to them as a little sanctuary in the countries where they are come; 
 17  therefore say: Thus saith the Lord GOD: I will even gather you from the peoples, and assemble you out of the countries where ye have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel. 
 18  And they shall come thither, and they shall take away all the detestable things thereof and all the abominations thereof from thence. 
 19  And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you; and I will remove the stony heart out of their flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh; 
 20  that they may walk in My statutes, and keep Mine ordinances, and do them; and they shall be My people, and I will be their God. 
 21  But as for them whose heart walketh after the heart of their detestable things and their abominations, I will bring their way upon their own heads, saith the Lord GOD.' 
 22 ¶ Then did the cherubim lift up their wings, and the wheels were beside them; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above. 
 23  And the glory of the LORD went up from the midst of the city, and stood upon the mountain which is on the east side of the city. 
 24  And a spirit lifted me up, and brought me in the vision by the spirit of God into Chaldea, to them of the captivity. So the vision that I had seen went up from Me. 
 25  Then I spoke unto them of the captivity all the things that the LORD had shown me. 





























