 1  After these things the word of the LORD came unto Abram in a vision, saying: 'Fear not, Abram, I am thy shield, thy reward shall be exceeding great.' 
 2  And Abram said: 'O Lord GOD, what wilt Thou give me, seeing I go hence childless, and he that shall be possessor of my house is Eliezer of Damascus?' 
 3  And Abram said: 'Behold, to me Thou hast given no seed, and, lo, one born in my house is to be mine heir.' 
 4  And, behold, the word of the LORD came unto him, saying: 'This man shall not be thine heir; but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir.' 
 5  And He brought him forth abroad, and said: 'Look now toward heaven, and count the stars, if thou be able to count them'; and He said unto him: 'So shall thy seed be.' 
 6  And he believed in the LORD; and He counted it to him for righteousness. 
 7  And He said unto him: 'I am the LORD that brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it.' 
 8  And he said: 'O Lord GOD, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it?' 
 9  And He said unto him: 'Take Me a heifer of three years old, and a she-goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtle-dove, and a young pigeon.' 
 10  And he took him all these, and divided them in the midst, and laid each half over against the other; but the birds divided he not. 
 11  And the birds of prey came down upon the carcasses, and Abram drove them away. 
 12  And it came to pass, that, when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram; and, lo, a dread, even a great darkness, fell upon him. 
 13  And He said unto Abram: 'Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them; and they shall afflict them four hundred years; 
 14  and also that nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge; and afterward shall they come out with great substance. 
 15  But thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be buried in a good old age. 
 16  And in the fourth generation they shall come back hither; for the iniquity of the Amorite is not yet full.' 
 17  And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and there was thick darkness, behold a smoking furnace, and a flaming torch that passed between these pieces. 
 18  In that day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying: 'Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates; 
 19  the Kenite, and the Kenizzite, and the Kadmonite, 
 20  and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Rephaim, 
 21  and the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Girgashite, and the Jebusite.' 





























