 1  This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made He him; 
 2  male and female created He them, and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created. 
 3  And Adam lived a hundred and thirty years, and begot a son in his own likeness, after his image; and called his name Seth. 
 4  And the days of Adam after he begot Seth were eight hundred years; and he begot sons and daughters. 
 5  And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years; and he died. 
 6  And Seth lived a hundred and five years, and begot Enosh. 
 7  And Seth lived after he begot Enosh eight hundred and seven years, and begot sons and daughters. 
 8  And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years; and he died. 
 9  And Enosh lived ninety years, and begot Kenan. 
 10  And Enosh lived after he begot Kenan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begot sons and daughters. 
 11  And all the days of Enosh were nine hundred and five years; and he died. 
 12  And Kenan lived seventy years, and begot Mahalalel. 
 13  And Kenan lived after he begot Mahalalel eight hundred and forty years, and begot sons and daughters. 
 14  And all the days of Kenan were nine hundred and ten years; and he died. 
 15  And Mahalalel lived sixty and five years, and begot Jared. 
 16  And Mahalalel lived after he begot Jared eight hundred and thirty years, and begot sons and daughters. 
 17  And all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred ninety and five years; and he died. 
 18  And Jared lived a hundred sixty and two years, and begot Enoch. 
 19  And Jared lived after he begot Enoch eight hundred years, and begot sons and daughters. 
 20  And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty and two years; and he died. 
 21  And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begot Methuselah. 
 22  And Enoch walked with God after he begot Methuselah three hundred years, and begot sons and daughters. 
 23  And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and five years. 
 24  And Enoch walked with God, and he was not; for God took him. 
 25  And Methuselah lived a hundred eighty and seven years, and begot Lamech. 
 26  And Methuselah lived after he begot Lamech seven hundred eighty and two years, and begot sons and daughters. 
 27  And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years; and he died. 
 28  And Lamech lived a hundred eighty and two years, and begot a son. 
 29  And he called his name Noah, saying: 'This same shall comfort us in our work and in the toil of our hands, which cometh from the ground which the LORD hath cursed.' 
 30  And Lamech lived after he begot Noah five hundred ninety and five years, and begot sons and daughters. 
 31  And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy and seven years; and he died. 
 32  And Noah was five hundred years old; and Noah begot Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 

