 1 ¶ when I would heal Israel, then is the iniquity of Ephraim uncovered, and the wickedness of Samaria, for they commit falsehood; and the thief entereth in, and the troop of robbers maketh a raid without. 
 2  And let them not say to their heart--I remember all their wickedness; now their own doings have beset them about, they are before My face. 
 3  They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes with their lies. 
 4  They are all adulterers, as an oven heated by the baker, who ceaseth to stir from the kneading of the dough until it be leavened. 
 5  On the day of our king the princes make him sick with the heat of wine, he stretcheth out his hand with scorners. 
 6  For they have made ready their heart like an oven, while they lie in wait; their baker sleepeth all the night, in the morning it burneth as a flaming fire. 
 7  They are all hot as an oven, and devour their judges; all their kings are fallen, there is none among them that calleth unto Me. 
 8 ¶ Ephraim, he mixeth himself with the peoples; Ephraim is become a cake not turned. 
 9  Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth it not; yea, gray hairs are here and there upon him, and he knoweth it not. 
 10  And the pride of Israel testifieth to his face; but they have not returned unto the LORD their God, nor sought Him, for all this. 
 11  And Ephraim is become like a silly dove, without understanding; they call unto Egypt, they go to Assyria. 
 12  Even as they go, I will spread My net upon them; I will bring them down as the fowls of the heaven; I will chastise them, as their congregation hath been made to hear. 
 13  Woe unto them! for they have strayed from Me; Destruction unto them! for they have transgressed against Me; Shall I then redeem them, seeing they have spoken lies against Me? 
 14  And they have not cried unto Me with their heart, though they wail upon their beds; they assemble themselves for corn and wine, they rebel against Me. 
 15  Though I have trained and strengthened their arms, yet do they devise evil against Me. 
 16  They return, but not upwards; they are become like a deceitful bow; their princes shall fall by the sword for the rage of their tongue; this shall be their derision in the land of Egypt. 





























