 1 ¶ Hear this, O ye priests, and attend, ye house of Israel, and give ear, O house of the king, for unto you pertaineth the judgment; for ye have been a snare on Mizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor. 
 2  And they that fall away are gone deep in making slaughter; and I am rejected of them all. 
 3  I, even I, know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from Me; for now, O Ephraim, thou hast committed harlotry, Israel is defiled. 
 4  Their doings will not suffer them to return unto their God; for the spirit of harlotry is within them, and they know not the LORD. 
 5  But the pride of Israel shall testify to his face; and Israel and Ephraim shall stumble in their iniquity, Judah also shall stumble with them. 
 6  With their flocks and with their herds they shall go to seek the LORD, but they shall not find Him; He hath withdrawn Himself from them. 
 7  They have dealt treacherously against the LORD, for they have begotten strange children; now shall the new moon devour them with their portions. 
 8 ¶ Blow ye the horn in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah; sound an alarm at Beth-aven: 'Behind thee, O Benjamin!' 
 9  Ephraim shall be desolate in the day of rebuke; among the tribes of Israel do I make known that which shall surely be. 
 10  The princes of Judah are like them that remove the landmark; I will pour out My wrath upon them like water. 
 11  Oppressed is Ephraim, crushed in his right; because he willingly walked after filth. 
 12  Therefore am I unto Ephraim as a moth, and to the house of Judah as rottenness. 
 13  And when Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah his wound, Ephraim went to Assyria, and sent to King Contentious; but he is not able to heal you, neither shall he cure you of your wound. 
 14  For I will be unto Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the house of Judah; I, even I, will tear and go away, I will take away, and there shall be none to deliver. 
 15  I will go and return to My place, till they acknowledge their guilt, and seek My face; in their trouble they will seek Me earnestly: 





























