 1 ¶ The burden of the wilderness of the sea. As whirlwinds in the South sweeping on, it cometh from the wilderness, from a dreadful land. 
 2  A grievous vision is declared unto me: 'The treacherous dealer dealeth treacherously, and the spoiler spoileth. Go up, O Elam! besiege, O Media! All the sighing thereof have I made to cease.' 
 3  Therefore are my loins filled with convulsion; pangs have taken hold upon me, as the pangs of a woman in travail; I am bent so that I cannot hear; I am affrighted so that I cannot see. 
 4  My heart is bewildered, terror hath overwhelmed me; the twilight that I longed for hath been turned for me into trembling. 
 5  They prepare the table, they light the lamps, they eat, they drink--' Rise up, ye princes, anoint the shield.' 
 6  For thus hath the Lord said unto me: Go, set a watchman; let him declare what he seeth! 
 7  And when he seeth a troop, horsemen by pairs, a troop of asses, a troop of camels, he shall hearken diligently with much heed. 
 8  And he cried as a lion: 'Upon the watch-tower, O Lord, I stand continually in the daytime, and I am set in my ward all the nights.' 
 9  And, behold, there came a troop of men, horsemen by pairs. And he spoke and said: 'Fallen, fallen is Babylon; and all the graven images of her gods are broken unto the ground.' 
 10  O thou my threshing, and the winnowing of my floor, that which I have heard from the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, have I declared unto you. 
 11 ¶ The burden of Dumah. One calleth unto me out of Seir: 'Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night?' 
 12  The watchman said: 'The morning cometh, and also the night--if ye will inquire, inquire ye; return, come.' 
 13 ¶ The burden upon Arabia. In the thickets in Arabia shall ye lodge, O ye caravans of Dedanites. 
 14  Unto him that is thirsty bring ye water! The inhabitants of the land of Tema did meet the fugitive with his bread. 
 15  For they fled away from the swords, from the drawn sword, and from the bent bow, and from the grievousness of war. 
 16  For thus hath the Lord said unto me: 'Within a year, according to the years of a hireling, and all the glory of Kedar shall fail; 
 17  and the residue of the number of the archers, the mighty men of the children of Kedar, shall be diminished; for the LORD, the God of Israel, hath spoken it.' 





























