 1  Thus saith the LORD to His anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have holden, to subdue nations before him, and to loose the loins of kings; to open the doors before him, and that the gates may not be shut: 
 2  I will go before thee, and make the crooked places straight; I will break in pieces the doors of brass, and cut in sunder the bars of iron; 
 3  And I will give thee the treasures of darkness, and hidden riches of secret places, that thou mayest know that I am the LORD, who call thee by thy name, even the God of Israel. 
 4  For the sake of Jacob My servant, and Israel Mine elect, I have called thee by thy name, I have surnamed thee, though thou hast not known Me. 
 5  I am the LORD, and there is none else, beside Me there is no God; I have girded thee, though thou hast not known Me; 
 6  That they may know from the rising of the sun, and from the west, that there is none beside Me; I am the LORD; and there is none else; 
 7  I form the light, and create darkness; I make peace, and create evil; I am the LORD, that doeth all these things. 
 8  Drop down, ye heavens, from above, and let the skies pour down righteousness; let the earth open, that they may bring forth salvation, and let her cause righteousness to spring up together; I the LORD have created it. 
 9  Woe unto him that striveth with his Maker, as a potsherd with the potsherds of the earth! Shall the clay say to him that fashioned it: 'What makest thou?' Or: 'Thy work, it hath no hands'? 
 10  Woe unto him that saith unto his father. 'Wherefore begettest thou?' Or to a woman: 'Wherefore travailest thou?' 
 11  Thus saith the LORD, the Holy One of Israel, and his Maker: Ask Me of the things that are to come; concerning My sons, and concerning the work of My hands, command ye Me. 
 12  I, even I, have made the earth, and created man upon it; I, even My hands, have stretched out the heavens, and all their host have I commanded. 
 13  I have roused him up in victory, and I make level all his ways; he shall build My city, and he shall let Mine exiles go free, not for price nor reward, saith the LORD of hosts. 
 14  Thus saith the LORD: the labour of Egypt, and the merchandise of Ethiopia, and of the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come over unto thee, and they shall be thine; they shall go after thee, in chains they shall come over; and they shall fall down unto thee, they shall make supplication unto thee: Surely God is in thee, and there is none else, there is no other God. 
 15  Verily Thou art a God that hidest Thyself, O God of Israel, the Saviour. 
 16  They shall be ashamed, yea, confounded, all of them; they shall go in confusion together that are makers of idols. 
 17  O Israel, that art saved by the LORD with an everlasting salvation; ye shall not be ashamed nor confounded world without end. 
 18  For thus saith the LORD that created the heavens, He is God; that formed the earth and made it, He established it, He created it not a waste, He formed it to be inhabited: I am the LORD, and there is none else. 
 19  I have not spoken in secret, in a place of the land of darkness; I said not unto the seed of Jacob: 'Seek ye Me in vain'; I the LORD speak righteousness, I declare things that are right. 
 20  Assemble yourselves and come, draw near together, ye that are escaped of the nations; they have no knowledge that carry the wood of their graven image, and pray unto a god that cannot save. 
 21  Declare ye, and bring them near, yea, let them take counsel together: Who hath announced this from ancient time, and declared it of old? Have not I the LORD? And there is no God else beside Me, a just God and a Saviour; there is none beside Me. 
 22  Look unto Me, and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth; for I am God, and there is none else. 
 23  By Myself have I sworn, the word is gone forth from My mouth in righteousness, and shall not come back, that unto Me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear. 
 24  Only in the LORD, shall one say of Me, is victory and strength; even to Him shall men come in confusion, all they that were incensed against Him. 
 25  In the LORD shall all the seed of Israel be justified, and shall glory. 





























