 1  Behold My servant, whom I uphold; Mine elect, in whom My soul delighteth; I have put My spirit upon him, he shall make the right to go forth to the nations. 
 2  He shall not cry, nor lift up, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street. 
 3  A bruised reed shall he not break, and the dimly burning wick shall he not quench; he shall make the right to go forth according to the truth. 
 4  He shall not fail nor be crushed, till he have set the right in the earth; and the isles shall wait for his teaching. 
 5  Thus saith God the LORD, He that created the heavens, and stretched them forth, He that spread forth the earth and that which cometh out of it, He that giveth breath unto the people upon it, and spirit to them that walk therein: 
 6  I the LORD have called thee in righteousness, and have taken hold of thy hand, and kept thee, and set thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the nations; 
 7  To open the blind eyes, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, and them that sit in darkness out of the prison-house. 
 8  I am the LORD, that is My name; and My glory will I not give to another, neither My praise to graven images. 
 9  Behold, the former things are come to pass, and new things do I declare; before they spring forth I tell you of them. 
 10  Sing unto the LORD a new song, and His praise from the end of the earth; ye that go down to the sea, and all that is therein, the isles, and the inhabitants thereof. 
 11  Let the wilderness and the cities thereof lift up their voice, the villages that Kedar doth inhabit; let the inhabitants of Sela exult, let them shout from the top of the mountains. 
 12  Let them give glory unto the LORD, and declare His praise in the islands. 
 13  The LORD will go forth as a mighty man, He will stir up jealousy like a man of war; He will cry, yea, He will shout aloud, He will prove Himself mighty against His enemies. 
 14  I have long time held My peace, I have been still, and refrained Myself; now will I cry like a travailing woman, gasping and panting at once. 
 15  I will make waste mountains and hills, and dry up all their herbs; and I will make the rivers islands, and will dry up the pools. 
 16  And I will bring the blind by a way that they knew not, in paths that they knew not will I lead them; I will make darkness light before them, and rugged places plain. These things will I do, and I will not leave them undone. 
 17  They shall be turned back, greatly ashamed, that trust in graven images, that say unto molten images: 'Ye are our gods.' 
 18  Hear, ye deaf, and look, ye blind, that ye may see. 
 19  Who is blind, but My servant? Or deaf, as My messenger that I send? Who is blind as he that is wholehearted, and blind as the LORD'S servant? 
 20  Seeing many things, thou observest not; opening the ears, he heareth not. 
 21  The LORD was pleased, for His righteousness' sake, to make the teaching great and glorious. 
 22  But this is a people robbed and spoiled, they are all of them snared in holes, and they are hid in prison-houses; they are for a prey, and none delivereth, for a spoil, and none saith: 'Restore.' 
 23  Who among you will give ear to this? Who will hearken and hear for the time to come? 
 24  Who gave Jacob for a spoil, and Israel to the robbers? Did not the LORD? He against whom we have sinned, and in whose ways they would not walk, neither were they obedient unto His law. 
 25  Therefore He poured upon him the fury of His anger, and the strength of battle; and it set him on fire round about, yet he knew not, and it burned him, yet he laid it not to heart. 





























