 1  I gave access to them that asked not for Me, I was at hand to them that sought Me not; I said: 'Behold Me, behold Me', unto a nation that was not called by My name. 
 2  I have spread out My hands all the day unto a rebellious people, that walk in a way that is not good, after their own thoughts; 
 3  A people that provoke Me to My face continually, that sacrifice in gardens, and burn incense upon bricks; 
 4  That sit among the graves, and lodge in the vaults; that eat swine's flesh, and broth of abominable things is in their vessels; 
 5  That say: 'Stand by thyself, come not near to me, for I am holier than thou'; these are a smoke in My nose, a fire that burneth all the day. 
 6  Behold, it is written before Me; I will not keep silence, except I have requited, yea, I will requite into their bosom, 
 7  Your own iniquities, and the iniquities of your fathers together, saith the LORD, that have offered upon the mountains, and blasphemed Me upon the hills; therefore will I first measure their wage into their bosom. 
 8  Thus saith the LORD: as, when wine is found in the cluster, one saith: 'Destroy it not, for a blessing is in it'; so will I do for My servants' sakes, that I may not destroy all. 
 9  And I will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, and out of Judah an inheritor of My mountains; and Mine elect shall inherit it, and My servants shall dwell there. 
 10  And Sharon shall be a fold of flocks, and the valley of Achor a place for herds to lie down in, for My people that have sought Me; 
 11  But ye that forsake the LORD, that forget My holy mountain, that prepare a table for Fortune, and that offer mingled wine in full measure unto Destiny, 
 12  I will destine you to the sword, and ye shall all bow down to the slaughter; because when I called, ye did not answer, when I spoke, ye did not hear; but ye did that which was evil in Mine eyes, and chose that wherein I delighted not. 
 13  Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD: Behold, My servants shall eat, but ye shall be hungry; behold, My servants shall drink, but ye shall be thirsty; behold, My servants shall rejoice, but ye shall be ashamed; 
 14  Behold, My servants shall sing for joy of heart, but ye shall cry for sorrow of heart, and shall wail for vexation of spirit. 
 15  And ye shall leave your name for a curse unto Mine elect: 'So may the Lord GOD slay thee'; but He shall call His servants by another name; 
 16  So that he who blesseth himself in the earth shall bless himself by the God of truth; and he that sweareth in the earth shall swear by the God of truth; because the former troubles are forgotten, and because they are hid from Mine eyes. 
 17  For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth; and the former things shall not be remembered, nor come into mind. 
 18  But be ye glad and rejoice for ever in that which I create; for, behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy. 
 19  And I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and joy in My people; and the voice of weeping shall be no more heard in her, nor the voice of crying. 
 20  There shall be no more thence an infant of days, nor an old man, that hath not filled his days; for the youngest shall die a hundred years old, and the sinner being a hundred years old shall be accursed. 
 21  And they shall build houses, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them. 
 22  They shall not build, and another inhabit, they shall not plant, and another eat; for as the days of a tree shall be the days of My people, and Mine elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands. 
 23  They shall not labour in vain, nor bring forth for terror; for they are the seed blessed of the LORD, and their offspring with them. 
 24  And it shall come to pass that, before they call, I will answer, and while they are yet speaking, I will hear. 
 25  The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox; and dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all My holy mountain, saith the LORD. 





























