 1 ¶ Hear ye this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel, and are come forth out of the fountain of Judah; who swear by the name of the LORD, and make mention of the God of Israel, but not in truth, nor in righteousness. 
 2  For they call themselves of the holy city, and stay themselves upon the God of Israel, the LORD of hosts is His name. 
 3  I have declared the former things from of old; yea, they went forth out of My mouth, and I announced them; suddenly I did them, and they came to pass. 
 4  Because I knew that thou art obstinate, and thy neck is an iron sinew, and thy brow brass; 
 5  Therefore I have declared it to thee from of old; before it came to pass I announced it to thee; lest thou shouldest say: 'Mine idol hath done them, and my graven image, and my molten image, hath commanded them.' 
 6  Thou hast heard, see, all this; and ye, will ye not declare it? I have announced unto thee new things from this time, even hidden things, which thou hast not known. 
 7  They are created now, and not from of old, and before this day thou heardest them not; lest thou shouldest say: 'Behold, I knew them.' 
 8  Yea, thou heardest not; yea, thou knewest not; yea, from of old thine ear was not opened; for I knew that thou wouldest deal very treacherously, and wast called a transgressor from the womb. 
 9 ¶ For My name's sake will I defer Mine anger, and for My praise will I refrain for thee, that I cut thee not off. 
 10  Behold, I have refined thee, but not as silver; I have tried thee in the furnace of affliction. 
 11  For Mine own sake, for Mine own sake, will I do it; for how should it be profaned? And My glory will I not give to another. 
 12  Hearken unto Me, O Jacob, and Israel My called: I am He; I am the first, I also am the last. 
 13  Yea, My hand hath laid the foundation of the earth, and My right hand hath spread out the heavens; when I call unto them, they stand up together. 
 14  Assemble yourselves, all ye, and hear; which among them hath declared these things? He whom the LORD loveth shall perform His pleasure on Babylon, and show His arm on the Chaldeans. 
 15  I, even I, have spoken, yea, I have called him; I have brought him, and he shall make his way prosperous. 
 16 ¶ Come ye near unto Me, hear ye this: From the beginning I have not spoken in secret; from the time that it was, there am I; and now the Lord GOD hath sent me, and His spirit. 
 17  Thus saith the LORD, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: I am the LORD thy God, who teacheth thee for thy profit, who leadeth thee by the way that thou shouldest go. 
 18  Oh that thou wouldest hearken to My commandments! then would thy peace be as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea; 
 19  Thy seed also would be as the sand, and the offspring of thy body like the grains thereof; his name would not be cut off nor destroyed from before Me. 
 20  Go ye forth from Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans; with a voice of singing declare ye, tell this, utter it even to the end of the earth; say ye: 'The LORD hath redeemed His servant Jacob. 
 21  And they thirsted not when He led them through the deserts; He caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them; He cleaved the rock also, and the waters gushed out.' 
 22  There is no peace, saith the LORD concerning the wicked. 





























