 1  But now thus saith the LORD that created thee, O Jacob, and He that formed thee, O Israel: Fear not, for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name, thou art Mine. 
 2  When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee, and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee; when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. 
 3  For I am the LORD thy God, The Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour; I have given Egypt as thy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba for thee. 
 4  Since thou art precious in My sight, and honourable, and I have loved thee; therefore will I give men for thee, and peoples for thy life. 
 5  Fear not, for I am with thee; I will bring thy seed from the east, and gather thee from the west; 
 6  I will say to the north: 'Give up,' and to the south: 'Keep not back, bring My sons from far, and My daughters from the end of the earth; 
 7  Every one that is called by My name, and whom I have created for My glory, I have formed him, yea, I have made him.' 
 8  The blind people that have eyes shall be brought forth, and the deaf that have ears. 
 9  All the nations are gathered together, and the peoples are assembled; who among them can declare this, and announce to us former things? Let them bring their witnesses, that they may be justified; and let them hear, and say: 'It is truth.' 
 10  Ye are My witnesses, saith the LORD, and My servant whom I have chosen; that ye may know and believe Me, and understand that I am He; before Me there was no God formed, neither shall any be after Me. 
 11  I, even I, am the LORD; and beside Me there is no saviour. 
 12  I have declared, and I have saved, and I have announced, and there was no strange god among you; therefore ye are My witnesses, saith the LORD, and I am God. 
 13  Yea, since the day was I am He, and there is none that can deliver out of My hand; I will work, and who can reverse it? 
 14  Thus saith the LORD, your Redeemer, The Holy One of Israel: For your sake I have sent to Babylon, and I will bring down all of them as fugitives, even the Chaldeans, in the ships of their shouting. 
 15  I am the LORD, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King. 
 16  Thus saith the LORD, who maketh a way in the sea, and a path in the mighty waters; 
 17  Who bringeth forth the chariot and horse, the army and the power--they lie down together, they shall not rise, they are extinct, they are quenched as a wick: 
 18  Remember ye not the former things, neither consider the things of old. 
 19  Behold, I will do a new thing; now shall it spring forth; shall ye not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert. 
 20  The beasts of the field shall honour Me, the jackals and the ostriches; because I give waters in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert, to give drink to My people, Mine elect; 
 21  The people which I formed for Myself, that they might tell of My praise. 
 22  Yet thou hast not called upon Me, O Jacob, neither hast thou wearied thyself about Me, O Israel. 
 23  Thou hast not brought Me the small cattle of thy burnt-offerings; neither hast thou honoured Me with thy sacrifices. I have not burdened thee with a meal-offering, nor wearied thee with frankincense. 
 24  Thou hast bought Me no sweet cane with money, neither hast thou satisfied Me with the fat of thy sacrifices; but thou hast burdened Me with thy sins, thou hast wearied Me with thine iniquities. 
 25  I, even I, am He that blotteth out thy transgressions for Mine own sake; and thy sins I will not remember. 
 26  Put Me in remembrance, let us plead together; declare thou, that thou mayest be justified. 
 27  Thy first father sinned, and thine intercessors have transgressed against Me. 
 28  Therefore I have profaned the princes of the sanctuary, and I have given Jacob to condemnation, and Israel to reviling. 





























