 1  Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and said: 
 2  Can a man be profitable unto God? Or can he that is wise be profitable unto Him? 
 3  Is it any advantage to the Almighty, that thou art righteous? Or is it gain to Him, that thou makest thy ways blameless? 
 4  Is it for thy fear of Him that He reproveth thee, that He entereth with thee into judgment? 
 5  Is not thy wickedness great? And are not thine iniquities without end? 
 6  For thou hast taken pledges of thy brother for nought, and stripped the naked of their clothing. 
 7  Thou hast not given water to the weary to drink, and thou hast withholden bread from the hungry. 
 8  And as a mighty man, who hath the earth, and as a man of rank, who dwelleth in it, 
 9  Thou hast sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken. 
 10  Therefore snares are round about thee, and sudden dread affrighted thee, 
 11  Or darkness, that thou canst not see, and abundance of waters cover thee. 
 12  Is not God in the height of heaven? And behold the topmost of the stars, how high they are! 
 13  And thou sayest: 'What doth God know? Can He judge through the dark cloud? 
 14  Thick clouds are a covering to Him, that He seeth not; and He walketh in the circuit of heaven.' 
 15  Wilt thou keep the old way which wicked men have trodden? 
 16  Who were snatched away before their time, whose foundation was poured out as a stream; 
 17  Who said unto God: 'Depart from us'; and what could the Almighty do unto them? 
 18  Yet He filled their houses with good things--but the counsel of the wicked is far from me. 
 19  The righteous saw it, and were glad, and the innocent laugh them to scorn: 
 20  'Surely their substance is cut off, and their abundance the fire hath consumed.' 
 21  Acquaint now thyself with Him, and be at peace; thereby shall thine increase be good. 
 22  Receive, I pray thee, instruction from His mouth, and lay up His words in thy heart. 
 23  If thou return to the Almighty, thou shalt be built up--if thou put away unrighteousness far from thy tents, 
 24  And lay thy treasure in the dust, and the gold of Ophir among the stones of the brooks; 
 25  And the Almighty be thy treasure, and precious silver unto thee; 
 26  Then surely shalt thou have thy delight in the Almighty, and shalt lift up thy face unto God. 
 27  Thou shalt make thy prayer unto Him, and He will hear thee, and thou shalt pay thy vows; 
 28  Thou shalt also decree a thing, and it shall be established unto thee, and light shall shine upon thy ways. 
 29  When they cast thee down, thou shalt say: 'There is lifting up'; for the humble person He saveth. 
 30  He delivereth him that is innocent, yea, thou shalt be delivered through the cleanness of thy hands. 





























