 1 ¶ For there is a mine for silver, and a place for gold which they refine. 
 2  Iron is taken out of the dust, and brass is molten out of the stone. 
 3  Man setteth an end to darkness, and searcheth out to the furthest bound the stones of thick darkness and of the shadow of death. 
 4  He breaketh open a shaft away from where men sojourn; they are forgotten of the foot that passeth by; they hang afar from men, they swing to and fro. 
 5  As for the earth, out of it cometh bread, and underneath it is turned up as it were by fire. 
 6  The stones thereof are the place of sapphires, and it hath dust of gold. 
 7  That path no bird of prey knoweth, neither hath the falcon's eye seen it; 
 8  The proud beasts have not trodden it, nor hath the lion passed thereby. 
 9  He putteth forth his hand upon the flinty rock; He overturneth the mountains by the roots. 
 10  He cutteth out channels among the rocks; and his eye seeth every precious thing. 
 11  He bindeth the streams that they trickle not; and the thing that is hid bringeth he forth to light. 
 12  But wisdom, where shall it be found? And where is the place of understanding? 
 13  Man knoweth not the price thereof; neither is it found in the land of the living. 
 14 ¶ The deep saith: 'It is not in me'; and the sea saith: 'It is not with me.' 
 15  It cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed for the price thereof. 
 16  It cannot be valued with the gold of Ophir, with the precious onyx, or the sapphire. 
 17  Gold and glass cannot equal it; neither shall the exchange thereof be vessels of fine gold. 
 18  No mention shall be made of coral or of crystal; yea, the price of wisdom is above rubies. 
 19  The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it, neither shall it be valued with pure gold. 
 20 ¶ Whence then cometh wisdom? And where is the place of understanding? 
 21  Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all living, and kept close from the fowls of the air. 
 22  Destruction and Death say: 'We have heard a rumor thereof with our ears.' 
 23  God understandeth the way thereof, and He knoweth the place thereof. 
 24  For He looketh to the ends of the earth, and seeth under the whole heaven; 
 25  When He maketh a weight for the wind, and meteth out the waters by measure. 
 26  When He made a decree for the rain, and a way for the storm of thunders; 
 27  Then did He see it, and declare it; He established it, yea, and searched it out. 
 28  And unto man He said: 'Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding.' 





























