 1  At this also my heart trembleth, and is moved out of its place. 
 2  Hear attentively the noise of His voice, and the sound that goeth out of His mouth. 
 3  He sendeth it forth under the whole heaven, and His lightning unto the ends of the earth. 
 4  After it a voice roareth; He thundereth with the voice of His majesty; and He stayeth them not when His voice is heard. 
 5  God thundereth marvellously with His voice; great things doeth He, which we cannot comprehend. 
 6  For He saith to the snow: 'Fall thou on the earth'; likewise to the shower of rain, and to the showers of His mighty rain. 
 7  He sealeth up the hand of every man, that all men whom He hath made may know it. 
 8  Then the beasts go into coverts, and remain in their dens. 
 9  Out of the Chamber cometh the storm; and cold out of the north. 
 10  By the breath of God ice is given, and the breadth of the waters is straitened. 
 11  Yea, He ladeth the thick cloud with moister, He spreadeth abroad the cloud of His lightning; 
 12  And they are turned round about by His guidance, that they may do whatsoever He commandeth them upon the face of the habitable world: 
 13  Whether it be for correction, or for His earth, or for mercy, that He cause it to come. 
 14  Hearken unto this, O Job; Stand still, and consider the wondrous works of God. 
 15  Dost thou know how God enjoineth them, and causeth the lightning of His cloud to shine? 
 16  Dost thou know the balancings of the clouds, the wondrous works of Him who is perfect in knowledge? 
 17  Thou whose garments are warm, when the earth is still by reason of the south wind; 
 18  Canst thou with Him spread out the sky, which is strong as a molten mirror? 
 19  Teach us what we shall say unto Him; for we cannot order our speech by reason of darkness. 
 20  Shall it be told Him that I would speak? Or should a man wish that he were swallowed up? 
 21  And now men see not the light which is bright in the skies; but the wind passeth, and cleanseth them. 
 22  Out of the north cometh golden splendour, about God is terrible majesty. 
 23  The Almighty, whom we cannot find out, is excellent in power, yet to judgment and plenteous justice He doeth no violence. 
 24  Men do therefore fear Him; He regardeth not any that are wise of heart. 





























