 1 ¶ Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and said: 
 2  If one venture a word unto thee, wilt thou be weary? But who can withhold himself from speaking? 
 3  Behold, thou hast instructed many, and thou hast strengthened the weak hands. 
 4  Thy words have upholden him that was falling, and thou hast strengthened the feeble knees. 
 5  But now it is come upon thee, and thou art weary; it toucheth thee, and thou art affrighted. 
 6  Is not thy fear of God thy confidence, and thy hope the integrity of thy ways? 
 7 ¶ Remember, I pray thee, who ever perished, being innocent? Or where were the upright cut off? 
 8  According as I have seen, they that plow iniquity, and sow mischief, reap the same. 
 9  By the breath of God they perish, and by the blast of His anger are they consumed. 
 10  The lion roareth, and the fierce lion howleth--yet the teeth of the young lions are broken. 
 11  The old lion perisheth for lack of prey, and the whelps of the lioness are scattered abroad. 
 12 ¶ Now a word was secretly brought to me, and mine ear received a whisper thereof. 
 13  In thoughts from the visions of the night, when deep sleep falleth on men, 
 14  Fear came upon me, and trembling, and all my bones were made to shake. 
 15  Then a spirit passed before my face, that made the hair of my flesh to stand up. 
 16  It stood still, but I could not discern the appearance thereof; a form was before mine eyes; I heard a still voice: 
 17  'Shall mortal man be just before God? Shall a man be pure before his Maker? 
 18  Behold, He putteth no trust in His servants, and His angels He chargeth with folly; 
 19  How much more them that dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation is in the dust, who are crushed before the moth! 
 20  Betwixt morning and evening they are shattered; they perish for ever without any regarding it. 
 21  Is not their tent-cord plucked up within them? They die, and that without wisdom.' 





























