 1  Then Job answered and said: 
 2  Oh that my vexation were but weighed, and my calamity laid in the balances altogether! 
 3  For now it would be heavier than the sand of the seas; therefore are my words broken. 
 4  For the arrows of the Almighty are within me, the poison whereof my spirit drinketh up; the terrors of God do set themselves in array against me. 
 5  Doth the wild ass bray when he hath grass? or loweth the ox over his fodder? 
 6  Can that which hath no savour be eaten without salt? or is there any taste in the juice of mallows? 
 7  My soul refuseth to touch them; they are as the sickness of my flesh. 
 8  Oh that I might have my request, and that God would grant me the thing that I long for! 
 9  Even that it would please God to crush me; that He would let loose His hand, and cut me off! 
 10  Then should I yet have comfort; yea, I would exult in pain, though He spare not; for I have not denied the words of the Holy One. 
 11  What is my strength, that I should wait? and what is mine end, that I should be patient? 
 12  Is my strength the strength of stones? or is my flesh of brass? 
 13  Is it that I have no help in me, and that sound wisdom is driven quite from me? 
 14  To him that is ready to faint kindness is due from his friend, even to him that forsaketh the fear of the Almighty. 
 15  My brethren have dealt deceitfully as a brook, as the channel of brooks that overflow, 
 16  Which are black by reason of the ice, and wherein the snow hideth itself; 
 17  What time they wax warm, they vanish, when it is hot, they are consumed out of their place. 
 18  The paths of their way do wind, they go up into the waste, and are lost. 
 19  The caravans of Tema looked, the companies of Sheba waited for them-- 
 20  They were ashamed because they had hoped; they came thither, and were confounded. 
 21  For now ye are become His; ye see a terror, and are afraid. 
 22  Did I say: 'Give unto me'? or: 'Offer a present for me of your substance'? 
 23  or: 'Deliver me from the adversary's hand'? or: 'Redeem me from the hand of the oppressors'? 
 24  Teach me, and I will hold my peace; and cause me to understand wherein I have erred. 
 25  How forcible are words of uprightness! But what doth your arguing argue? 
 26  Do ye hold words to be an argument, but the speeches of one that is desperate to be wind? 
 27  Yea, ye would cast lots upon the fatherless, and dig a pit for your friend. 
 28  Now therefore be pleased to look upon me; for surely I shall not lie to your face. 
 29  Return, I pray you, let there be no injustice; yea, return again, my cause is righteous. 
 30  Is there injustice on my tongue? Cannot my taste discern crafty devices? 





























