 1  Now these are the nations which the LORD left, to prove Israel by them, even as many as had not known all the wars of Canaan; 
 2  only that the generations of the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, at the least such as beforetime knew nothing thereof; 
 3  namely, the five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Zidonians, and the Hivites that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Baal-hermon unto the entrance of Hamath. 
 4  And they were there, to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of the LORD, which He commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses. 
 5  And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites; 
 6  and they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their own daughters to their sons, and served their gods. 
 7  And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, and forgot the LORD their God, and served the Baalim and the Asheroth. 
 8  Therefore the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and He gave them over into the hand of Cushan-rishathaim king of Aram-naharaim; and the children of Israel served Cushan-rishathaim eight years. 
 9  And when the children of Israel cried unto the LORD, the LORD raised up a saviour to the children of Israel, who saved them, even Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother. 
 10  And the spirit of the LORD came upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and the LORD delivered Cushan-rishathaim king of Aram into his hand; and his hand prevailed against Cushan-rishathaim. 
 11  And the land had rest forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz died. 
 12  And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD; and the LORD strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done that which was evil in the sight of the LORD. 
 13  And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek; and he went and smote Israel, and they possessed the city of palm-trees. 
 14  And the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years. 
 15  But when the children of Israel cried unto the LORD, the LORD raised them up a saviour, Ehud the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a man left-handed; and the children of Israel sent a present by him unto Eglon the king of Moab. 
 16  And Ehud made him a sword which had two edges, of a cubit length; and he girded it under his raiment upon his right thigh. 
 17  And he offered the present unto Eglon king of Moab--now Eglon was a very fat man. 
 18  And when he had made an end of offering the present, he sent away the people that bore the present. 
 19  But he himself turned back from the quarries that were by Gilgal, and said: 'I have a secret errand unto thee, O king.' And he said: 'Keep silence.' And all that stood by him went out from him. 
 20  And Ehud came unto him; and he was sitting by himself alone in his cool upper chamber. And Ehud said: 'I have a message from God unto thee.' And he arose out of his seat. 
 21  And Ehud put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly. 
 22  And the haft also went in after the blade; and the fat closed upon the blade, for he drew not the sword out of his belly; and it came out behind. 
 23  Then Ehud went forth into the porch, and shut the doors of the upper chamber upon him, and locked them. 
 24  Now when he was gone out, his servants came; and they saw, and, behold, the doors of the upper chamber were locked; and they, said: 'Surely he is covering his feet in the cabinet of the cool chamber.' 
 25  And they tarried till they were ashamed; and, behold, he opened not the doors of the upper chamber; therefore they took the key, and opened them; and, behold, their lord was fallen down dead on the earth. 
 26  And Ehud escaped while they lingered, having passed beyond the quarries, and escaped unto Seirah. 
 27  And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a horn in the hill-country of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he before them. 
 28  And he said unto them: 'Follow after me; for the LORD hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand.' And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites, and suffered not a man to pass over. 
 29  And they smote of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, every lusty man, and every man of valour; and there escaped not a man. 
 30  So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest fourscore years. 
 31  And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath, who smote of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox-goad; and he also saved Israel. 





























