 1 ¶ (2:2) A maul is come up before thy face; guard the defences, watch the way, make thy loins strong, fortify thy power mightily!-- 
 2  (2:3) For the LORD restoreth the pride of Jacob, as the pride of Israel; for the emptiers have emptied them out, and marred their vine-branches.-- 
 3  (2:4) The shield of his mighty men is made red, the valiant men are in scarlet; the chariots are fire of steel in the day of his preparation, and the cypress spears are made to quiver. 
 4  (2:5) The chariots rush madly in the streets, they jostle one against another in the broad places; the appearance of them is like torches, they run to and fro like the lightnings. 
 5  (2:6) He bethinketh himself of his worthies; they stumble in their march; they make haste to the wall thereof, and the mantelet is prepared. 
 6  (2:7) The gates of the rivers are opened, and the palace is dissolved. 
 7  (2:8) And the queen is uncovered, she is carried away, and her handmaids moan as with the voice of doves, tabering upon their breasts. 
 8  (2:9) But Nineveh hath been from of old like a pool of water; yet they flee away; 'Stand, stand'; but none looketh back. 
 9  (2:10) Take ye the spoil of silver, take the spoil of gold; for there is no end of the store, rich with all precious vessels. 
 10  (2:11) She is empty, and void, and waste; and the heart melteth, and the knees smite together, and convulsion is in all loins, and the faces of them all have gathered blackness. 
 11 ¶ (2:12) Where is the den of the lions, which was the feeding-place of the young lions, where the lion and the lioness walked, and the lion's whelp, and none made them afraid? 
 12  (2:13) The lion did tear in pieces enough for his whelps, and strangled for his lionesses, and filled his caves with prey, and his dens with ravin. 
 13  (2:14) Behold, I am against thee, saith the LORD of hosts, and I will burn her chariots in the smoke, and the sword shall devour thy young lions; and I will cut off thy prey from the earth, and the voice of thy messengers shall no more be heard. 





























