 1  A soft answer turneth away wrath; but a grievous word stirreth up anger. 
 2  The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright; but the mouth of fools poureth out foolishness. 
 3  The eyes of the LORD are in every place, keeping watch upon the evil and the good. 
 4  A soothing tongue is a tree of life; but perverseness therein is a wound to the spirit. 
 5  A fool despiseth his father's correction; but he that regardeth reproof is prudent. 
 6  In the house of the righteous is much treasure; but in the revenues of the wicked is trouble. 
 7  The lips of the wise disperse knowledge; but the heart of the foolish is not stedfast. 
 8  The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD; but the prayer of the upright is His delight. 
 9  The way of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD; but He loveth him that followeth after righteousness. 
 10  There is grievous correction for him that forsaketh the way; and he that hateth reproof shall die. 
 11  The nether-world and Destruction are before the LORD; how much more then the hearts of the children of men! 
 12  A scorner loveth not to be reproved; he will not go unto the wise. 
 13  A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance; but by sorrow of heart the spirit is broken. 
 14  The heart of him that hath discernment seeketh knowledge; but the mouth of fools feedeth on folly. 
 15  All the days of the poor are evil; but he that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast. 
 16  Better is little with the fear of the LORD, than great treasure and turmoil therewith. 
 17  Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith. 
 18  A wrathful man stirreth up discord; but he that is slow to anger appeaseth strife. 
 19  The way of the sluggard is as though hedged by thorns; but the path of the upright is even. 
 20  A wise son maketh a glad father; but a foolish man despiseth his mother. 
 21  Folly is joy to him that lacketh understanding; but a man of discernment walketh straightforwards. 
 22  For want of counsel purposes are frustrated; but in the multitude of counsellors they are established. 
 23  A man hath joy in the answer of his mouth; and a word in due season, how good is it! 
 24  The path of life goeth upward for the wise, that he may depart from the nether-world beneath. 
 25  The LORD will pluck up the house of the proud; but He will establish the border of the widow. 
 26  The thoughts of wickedness are an abomination to the LORD; but words of pleasantness are pure. 
 27  He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he that hateth gifts shall live. 
 28  The heart of the righteous studieth to answer; but the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things. 
 29  The LORD is far from the wicked; but He heareth the prayer of the righteous. 
 30  The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart; and a good report maketh the bones fat. 
 31  The ear that hearkeneth to the reproof of life abideth among the wise. 
 32  He that refuseth correction despiseth his own soul; but he that hearkeneth to reproof getteth understanding. 
 33  The fear of the LORD is the instruction of wisdom; and before honour goeth humility. 





























