 1  As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honour is not seemly for a fool. 
 2  As the wandering sparrow, as the flying swallow, so the curse that is causeless shall come home. 
 3  A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the back of fools. 
 4  Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him. 
 5  Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes. 
 6  He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool cutteth off his own feet, and drinketh damage. 
 7  The legs hang limp from the lame; so is a parable in the mouth of fools. 
 8  As a small stone in a heap of stones, so is he that giveth honour to a fool. 
 9  As a thorn that cometh into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouth of fools. 
 10  A master performeth all things; but he that stoppeth a fool is as one that stoppeth a flood. 
 11  As a dog that returneth to his vomit, so is a fool that repeateth his folly. 
 12  Seest thou a man wise in his own eyes? there is more hope of a fool than of him. 
 13  The sluggard saith: 'There is a lion in the way; yea, a lion is in the streets.' 
 14  The door is turning upon its hinges, and the sluggard is still upon his bed. 
 15  The sluggard burieth his hand in the dish; it wearieth him to bring it back to his mouth. 
 16  The sluggard is wiser in his own eyes than seven men that give wise answer. 
 17  He that passeth by, and meddleth with strife not his own, is like one that taketh a dog by the ears. 
 18  As a madman who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death; 
 19  So is the man that deceiveth his neighbour, and saith: 'Am not I in sport?' 
 20  Where no wood is, the fire goeth out; and where there is no whisperer, contention ceaseth. 
 21  As coals are to burning coals, and wood to fire; so is a contentious man to kindle strife. 
 22  The words of a whisperer are as dainty morsels, and they go down into the innermost parts of the body. 
 23  Burning lips and a wicked heart are like an earthen vessel overlaid with silver dross. 
 24  He that hateth dissembleth with his lips, but he layeth up deceit within him. 
 25  When he speaketh fair, believe him not; for there are seven abominations in his heart. 
 26  Though his hatred be concealed with deceit, his wickedness shall be revealed before the congregation. 
 27  Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein; and he that rolleth a stone, it shall return upon him. 
 28  A lying tongue hateth those that are crushed by it; and a flattering mouth worketh ruin. 





























