 1  Be not thou envious of evil men, neither desire to be with them. 
 2  For their heart studieth destruction, and their lips talk of mischief. 
 3  Through wisdom is a house builded; and by understanding it is established; 
 4  And by knowledge are the chambers filled with all precious and pleasant riches. 
 5  A wise man is strong; yea, a man of knowledge increaseth strength. 
 6  For with wise advice thou shalt make thy war; and in the multitude of counsellors there is safety. 
 7  Wisdom is as unattainable to a fool as corals; he openeth not his mouth in the gate. 
 8  He that deviseth to do evil, men shall call him a mischievous person. 
 9  The thought of foolishness is sin; and the scorner is an abomination to men. 
 10  If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small indeed. 
 11  Deliver them that are drawn unto death; and those that are ready to be slain wilt thou forbear to rescue? 
 12  If thou sayest: 'Behold, we knew not this', doth not He that weigheth the hearts consider it? And He that keepeth thy soul, doth not He know it? And shall not He render to every man according to his works? 
 13  My son, eat thou honey, for it is good, and the honeycomb is sweet to thy taste; 
 14  So know thou wisdom to be unto thy soul; if thou hast found it, then shall there be a future, and thy hope shall not be cut off. 
 15  Lie not in wait, O wicked man, against the dwelling of the righteous, spoil not his resting-place; 
 16  For a righteous man falleth seven times, and riseth up again, but the wicked stumble under adversity. 
 17  Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thy heart be glad when he stumbleth; 
 18  Lest the LORD see it, and it displease Him, and He turn away His wrath from him. 
 19  Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious at the wicked; 
 20  For there will be no future to the evil man, the lamp of the wicked shall be put out. 
 21  My son, fear thou the LORD and the king, and meddle not with them that are given to change; 
 22  For their calamity shall rise suddenly; and who knoweth the ruin from them both? 
 23  These also are sayings of the wise. To have respect of persons in judgment is not good. 
 24  He that saith unto the wicked: 'Thou art righteous', peoples shall curse him, nations shall execrate him; 
 25  But to them that decide justly shall be delight, and a good blessing shall come upon them. 
 26  He kisseth the lips that giveth a right answer. 
 27  Prepare thy work without, and make it fit for thyself in the field; and afterwards build thy house. 
 28  Be not a witness against thy neighbour without cause; and deceive not with thy lips. 
 29  Say not: 'I will do so to him as he hath done to me; I will render to the man according to his work.' 
 30  I went by the field of the slothful, and by the vineyard of the man void of understanding; 
 31  And, lo, it was all grown over with thistles, the face thereof was covered with nettles, and the stone wall thereof was broken down. 
 32  Then I beheld, and considered well; I saw, and received instruction. 
 33  'Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep'-- 
 34  So shall thy poverty come as a runner, and thy want as an armed man. 





























