 1  Boast not thyself of to-morrow; for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. 
 2  Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth; a stranger, and not thine own lips. 
 3  A stone is heavy, and the sand weighty; but a fool's vexation is heavier than they both. 
 4  Wrath is cruel, and anger is overwhelming; but who is able to stand before jealousy? 
 5  Better is open rebuke than love that is hidden. 
 6  Faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy are importunate. 
 7  The full soul loatheth a honeycomb; but to the hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet. 
 8  As a bird that wandereth from her nest, so is a man that wandereth from his place. 
 9  Ointment and perfume rejoice the heart; so doth the sweetness of a man's friend by hearty counsel. 
 10  Thine own friend, and thy father's friend, forsake not; neither go into thy brother's house in the day of thy calamity; better is a neighbour that is near than a brother far off. 
 11  My son, be wise, and make my heart glad, that I may answer him that taunteth me. 
 12  A prudent man seeth the evil, and hideth himself; but the thoughtless pass on, and are punished. 
 13  Take his garment that is surety for a stranger; and hold him in pledge that is surety for an alien woman. 
 14  He that blesseth his friend with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, it shall be counted a curse to him. 
 15  A continual dropping in a very rainy day and a contentious woman are alike; 
 16  He that would hide her hideth the wind, and the ointment of his right hand betrayeth itself. 
 17  Iron sharpeneth iron; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend. 
 18  Whoso keepeth the fig-tree shall eat the fruit thereof; and he that waiteth on his master shall be honoured. 
 19  As in water face answereth to face, so the heart of man to man. 
 20  The nether-world and Destruction are never satiated; so the eyes of man are never satiated. 
 21  The refining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold, and a man is tried by his praise. 
 22  Though thou shouldest bray a fool in a mortar with a pestle among groats, yet will not his foolishness depart from him. 
 23  Be thou diligent to know the state of thy flocks, and look well to thy herds; 
 24  For riches are not for ever; and doth the crown endure unto all generations? 
 25  When the hay is mown, and the tender grass showeth itself, and the herbs of the mountains are gathered in; 
 26  The lambs will be for thy clothing, and the goats the price for a field. 
 27  And there will be goats' milk enough for thy food, for the food of thy household; and maintenance for thy maidens. 





























