 1  Wine is a mocker, strong drink is riotous; and whosoever reeleth thereby is not wise. 
 2  The terror of a king is as the roaring of a lion: he that provoketh him to anger forfeiteth his life. 
 3  It is an honour for a man to keep aloof from strife; but every fool will be snarling. 
 4  The sluggard will not plow when winter setteth in; therefore he shall beg in harvest, and have nothing. 
 5  Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water; but a man of understanding will draw it out. 
 6  Most men will proclaim every one his own goodness; but a faithful man who can find? 
 7  He that walketh in his integrity as a just man, happy are his children after him. 
 8  A king that sitteth on the throne of judgment scattereth away all evil with his eyes. 
 9  Who can say: 'I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin'? 
 10  Divers weights, and divers measures, both of them alike are abomination to the LORD. 
 11  Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work be pure, and whether it be right. 
 12  The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, the LORD hath made even both of them. 
 13  Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty; open thine eyes, and thou shalt have bread in plenty. 
 14  'It is bad, it is bad', saith the buyer; but when he is gone his way, then he boasteth. 
 15  There is gold, and a multitude of rubies; but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel. 
 16  Take his garment that is surety for a stranger; and hold him in pledge that is surety for an alien woman. 
 17  Bread of falsehood is sweet to a man; but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with gravel. 
 18  Every purpose is established by counsel; and with good advice carry on war. 
 19  He that goeth about as a talebearer revealeth secrets; therefore meddle not with him that openeth wide his lips. 
 20  Whoso curseth his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in the blackest darkness. 
 21  An estate may be gotten hastily at the beginning; but the end thereof shall not be blessed. 
 22  Say not thou: 'I will requite evil'; wait for the LORD, and He will save thee. 
 23  Divers weights are an abomination to the LORD; and a false balance is not good. 
 24  A man's goings are of the LORD; how then can man look to his way? 
 25  It is a snare to a man rashly to say: 'Holy', and after vows to make inquiry. 
 26  A wise king sifteth the wicked, and turneth the wheel over them. 
 27  The spirit of man is the lamp of the LORD, searching all the inward parts. 
 28  Mercy and truth preserve the king; and his throne is upheld by mercy. 
 29  The glory of young men is their strength; and the beauty of old men is the hoary head. 
 30  Sharp wounds cleanse away evil; so do stripes that reach the inward parts. 





























