 1  A wise son is instructed of his father; but a scorner heareth not rebuke. 
 2  A man shall eat good from the fruit of his mouth; but the desire of the faithless is violence. 
 3  He that guardeth his mouth keepeth his life; but for him that openeth wide his lips there shall be ruin. 
 4  The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing; but the soul of the diligent shall be abundantly gratified. 
 5  A righteous man hateth lying; but a wicked man behaveth vilely and shamefully. 
 6  Righteousness guardeth him that is upright in the way; but wickedness overthroweth the sinner. 
 7  There is that pretendeth himself rich, yet hath nothing; there is that pretendeth himself poor, yet hath great wealth. 
 8  The ransom of a man's life are his riches; but the poor heareth no threatening. 
 9  The light of the righteous rejoiceth; but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out. 
 10  By pride cometh only contention; but with the well-advised is wisdom. 
 11  Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished; but he that gathereth little by little shall increase. 
 12  Hope deferred maketh the heart sick; but desire fulfilled is a tree of life. 
 13  Whoso despiseth the word shall suffer thereby; but he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded. 
 14  The teaching of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death. 
 15  Good understanding giveth grace; but the way of the faithless is harsh. 
 16  Every prudent man dealeth with forethought; but a fool unfoldeth folly. 
 17  A wicked messenger falleth into evil; but a faithful ambassador is health. 
 18  Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth instruction; but he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured. 
 19  The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul; and it is an abomination to fools to depart from evil. 
 20  He that walketh with wise men shall be wise; but the companion of fools shall smart for it. 
 21  Evil pursueth sinners; but to the righteous good shall be repaid. 
 22  A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children; and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the righteous. 
 23  Much food is in the tillage of the poor; but there is that is swept away by want of righteousness. 
 24  He that spareth his rod hateth his son; but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes. 
 25  The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his desire; but the belly of the wicked shall want. 





























