 1  A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favour rather than silver and gold. 
 2  The rich and the poor meet together--the LORD is the maker of them all. 
 3  A prudent man seeth the evil, and hideth himself; but the thoughtless pass on, and are punished. 
 4  The reward of humility is the fear of the LORD, even riches, and honour, and life. 
 5  Thorns and snares are in the way of the froward; he that keepeth his soul holdeth himself far from them. 
 6  Train up a child in the way he should go, and even when he is old, he will not depart from it. 
 7  The rich ruleth over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the lender. 
 8  He that soweth iniquity shall reap vanity; and the rod of his wrath shall fail. 
 9  He that hath a bountiful eye shall be blessed; for he giveth of his bread to the poor. 
 10  Cast out the scorner, and contention will go out; yea, strife and shame will cease. 
 11  He that loveth pureness of heart, that hath grace in his lips, the king shall be his friend. 
 12  The eyes of the LORD preserve him that hath knowledge, but He overthroweth the words of the faithless man. 
 13  The sluggard saith: 'There is a lion without; I shall be slain in the streets.' 
 14  The mouth of strange women is a deep pit: he that is abhorred of the LORD shall fall therein. 
 15  Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child; but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him. 
 16  One may oppress the poor, yet will their gain increase; one may give to the rich, yet will want come. 
 17  Incline thine ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply thy heart unto my knowledge. 
 18  For it is a pleasant thing if thou keep them within thee; let them be established altogether upon thy lips. 
 19  That thy trust may be in the LORD, I have made them known to thee this day, even to thee. 
 20  Have not I written unto thee excellent things of counsels and knowledge; 
 21  That I might make thee know the certainty of the words of truth, that thou mightest bring back words of truth to them that send thee? 
 22  Rob not the weak, because he is weak, neither crush the poor in the gate; 
 23  For the LORD will plead their cause, and despoil of life those that despoil them. 
 24  Make no friendship with a man that is given to anger; and with a wrathful man thou shalt not go; 
 25  Lest thou learn his ways, and get a snare to thy soul. 
 26  Be thou not of them that strike hands, or of them that are sureties for debts; 
 27  If thou hast not wherewith to pay, why should he take away thy bed from under thee? 
 28  Remove not the ancient landmark, which thy fathers have set. 
 29  Seest thou a man diligent in his business? he shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean men. 





























