 1  The wicked flee when no man pursueth; but the righteous are secure as a young lion. 
 2  For the transgression of a land many are the princes thereof; but by a man of understanding and knowledge established order shall long continue. 
 3  A poor man that oppresseth the weak is like a sweeping rain which leaveth no food. 
 4  They that forsake the law praise the wicked; but such as keep the law contend with them. 
 5  Evil men understand not justice; but they that seek the LORD understand all things. 
 6  Better is the poor that walketh in his integrity, than he that is perverse in his ways, though he be rich. 
 7  A wise son observeth the teaching; but he that is a companion of gluttonous men shameth his father. 
 8  He that augmenteth his substance by interest and increase, gathereth it for him that is gracious to the poor. 
 9  He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is an abomination. 
 10  Whoso causeth the upright to go astray in an evil way, he shall fall himself into his own pit; but the whole-hearted shall inherit good. 
 11  The rich man is wise in his own eyes; but the poor that hath understanding searcheth him through. 
 12  When the righteous exult, there is great glory; but when the wicked rise, men must be sought for. 
 13  He that covereth his transgressions shall not prosper; but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall obtain mercy. 
 14  Happy is the man that feareth alway; but he that hardeneth his heart shall fall into evil. 
 15  As a roaring lion, and a ravenous bear; so is a wicked ruler over a poor people. 
 16  The prince that lacketh understanding is also a great oppressor; but he that hateth covetousness shall prolong his days. 
 17  A man that is laden with the blood of any person shall hasten his steps unto the pit; none will support him. 
 18  Whoso walketh uprightly shall be saved; but he that is perverse in his ways shall fall at once. 
 19  He that tilleth his ground shall have plenty of bread; but he that followeth after vain things shall have poverty enough. 
 20  A faithful man shall abound with blessings; but he that maketh haste to be rich shall not be unpunished. 
 21  To have respect of persons is not good; for a man will transgress for a piece of bread. 
 22  He that hath an evil eye hasteneth after riches, and knoweth not that want shall come upon him. 
 23  He that rebuketh a man shall in the end find more favour than he that flattereth with the tongue. 
 24  Whoso robbeth his father or his mother, and saith: 'It is no transgression', the same is the companion of a destroyer. 
 25  He that is of a greedy spirit stirreth up strife; but he that putteth his trust in the LORD shall be abundantly gratified. 
 26  He that trusteth in his own heart is a fool; but whoso walketh wisely, he shall escape. 
 27  He that giveth unto the poor shall not lack; but he that hideth his eyes shall have many a curse. 
 28  When the wicked rise, men hide themselves; but when they perish, the righteous increase. 





























