 1 ¶ Why standest Thou afar off, O LORD? Why hidest Thou Thyself in times of trouble? 
 2  Through the pride of the wicked the poor is hotly pursued, they are taken in the devices that they have imagined. 
 3  For the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire, and the covetous vaunteth himself, though he contemn the LORD. 
 4  The wicked, in the pride of his countenance, saith: 'He will not require'; all his thoughts are: 'There is no God.' 
 5  His ways prosper at all times; Thy judgments are far above out of his sight; as for all his adversaries, he puffeth at them. 
 6  He saith in his heart: 'I shall not be moved, I who to all generations shall not be in adversity.' 
 7  His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and oppression; under his tongue is mischief and iniquity. 
 8  He sitteth in the lurking-places of the villages; in secret places doth he slay the innocent; his eyes are on the watch for the helpless. 
 9  He lieth in wait in a secret place as a lion in his lair, he lieth in wait to catch the poor; he doth catch the poor, when he draweth him up in his net. 
 10  He croucheth, he boweth down, and the helpless fall into his mighty claws. 
 11  He hath said in his heart: 'God hath forgotten; He hideth His face; He will never see.' 
 12 ¶ Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up Thy hand; forget not the humble. 
 13  Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God, and say in his heart: 'Thou wilt not require'? 
 14  Thou hast seen; for Thou beholdest trouble and vexation, to requite them with Thy hand; unto Thee the helpless committeth himself; Thou hast been the helper of the fatherless. 
 15  Break Thou the arm of the wicked; and as for the evil man, search out his wickedness, till none be found. 
 16  The LORD is King for ever and ever; the nations are perished out of His land. 
 17  LORD, Thou hast heard the desire of the humble: Thou wilt direct their heart, Thou wilt cause Thine ear to attend; 
 18  To right the fatherless and the oppressed, that man who is of the earth may be terrible no more. 





























