 1 ¶ A Psalm of Asaph. Surely God is good to Israel, even to such as are pure in heart. 
 2  But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh slipped. 
 3  For I was envious at the arrogant, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. 
 4  For there are no pangs at their death, and their body is sound. 
 5  In the trouble of man they are not; neither are they plagued like men. 
 6  Therefore pride is as a chain about their neck; violence covereth them as a garment. 
 7  Their eyes stand forth from fatness; they are gone beyond the imaginations of their heart. 
 8  They scoff, and in wickedness utter oppression; they speak as if there were none on high. 
 9  They have set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth. 
 10  Therefore His people return hither; and waters of fullness are drained out by them. 
 11  And they say: 'How doth God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High?' 
 12  Behold, such are the wicked; and they that are always at ease increase riches. 
 13  Surely in vain have I cleansed my heart, and washed my hands in innocency; 
 14  For all the day have I been plagued, and my chastisement came every morning. 
 15 ¶ If I had said: 'I will speak thus', behold, I had been faithless to the generation of Thy children. 
 16  And when I pondered how I might know this, it was wearisome in mine eyes; 
 17  Until I entered into the sanctuary of God, and considered their end. 
 18  Surely Thou settest them in slippery places; Thou hurlest them down to utter ruin. 
 19  How are they become a desolation in a moment! They are wholly consumed by terrors. 
 20  As a dream when one awaketh, so, O Lord, when Thou arousest Thyself, Thou wilt despise their semblance. 
 21 ¶ For my heart was in a ferment, and I was pricked in my reins. 
 22  But I was brutish, and ignorant; I was as a beast before Thee. 
 23  Nevertheless I am continually with Thee; Thou holdest my right hand. 
 24  Thou wilt guide me with Thy counsel, and afterward receive me with glory. 
 25  Whom have I in heaven but Thee? And beside Thee I desire none upon earth. 
 26  My flesh and my heart faileth; but God is the rock of my heart and my portion for ever. 
 27  For, lo, they that go far from Thee shall perish; Thou dost destroy all them that go astray from Thee. 
 28  But as for me, the nearness of God is my good; I have made the Lord GOD my refuge, that I may tell of all Thy works. 





























