 1 ¶ A Psalm of David. Bless the LORD, O my soul; and all that is within me, bless His holy name. 
 2  Bless the LORD, O my soul, and forget not all His benefits; 
 3  Who forgiveth all thine iniquity; who healeth all Thy diseases; 
 4  Who redeemeth Thy life from the pit; who encompasseth thee with lovingkindness and tender mercies; 
 5  Who satisfieth thine old age with good things; so that Thy youth is renewed like the eagle. 
 6 ¶ The LORD executeth righteousness, and acts of justice for all that are oppressed. 
 7  He made known His ways unto Moses, His doings unto the children of Israel. 
 8  The LORD is full of compassion and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy. 
 9  He will not always contend; neither will He keep His anger for ever. 
 10  He hath not dealt with us after our sins, nor requited us according to our iniquities. 
 11  For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is His mercy toward them that fear Him. 
 12  As far as the east is from the west, so far hath He removed our transgressions from us. 
 13  Like as a father hath compassion upon his children, so hath the LORD compassion upon them that fear Him. 
 14  For He knoweth our frame; He remembereth that we are dust. 
 15  As for man, his days are as grass; as a flower of the field, so he flourisheth. 
 16  For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; and the place thereof knoweth it no more. 
 17  But the mercy of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear Him, and His righteousness unto children's children; 
 18  To such as keep His covenant, and to those that remember His precepts to do them. 
 19 ¶ The LORD hath established His throne in the heavens; and His kingdom ruleth over all. 
 20  Bless the LORD, ye angels of His, ye mighty in strength, that fulfil His word, hearkening unto the voice of His word. 
 21  Bless the LORD, all ye His hosts; ye ministers of His, that do His pleasure. 
 22  Bless the LORD, all ye His works, in all places of His dominion; bless the LORD, O my soul. 





























