 1 ¶ O give thanks unto the LORD, for He is good, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 2  O give thanks unto the God of gods, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 3  O give thanks unto the Lord of lords, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 4  To Him who alone doeth great wonders, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 5  To Him that by understanding made the heavens, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 6  To Him that spread forth the earth above the waters, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 7  To Him that made great lights, for His mercy endureth for ever; 
 8  The sun to rule by day, for His mercy endureth for ever; 
 9  The moon and stars to rule by night, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 10 ¶ To Him that smote Egypt in their first-born, for His mercy endureth for ever; 
 11  And brought out Israel from among them, for His mercy endureth for ever; 
 12  With a strong hand, and with an outstretched arm, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 13  To Him who divided the Red Sea in sunder, for His mercy endureth for ever; 
 14  And made Israel to pass through the midst of it, for His mercy endureth for ever; 
 15  But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 16  To Him that led His people through the wilderness, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 17  To Him that smote great kings; for His mercy endureth for ever; 
 18  And slew mighty kings, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 19  Sihon king of the Amorites, for His mercy endureth for ever; 
 20  And Og king of Bashan, for His mercy endureth for ever; 
 21  And gave their land for a heritage, for His mercy endureth for ever; 
 22  Even a heritage unto Israel His servant, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 23 ¶ Who remembered us in our low estate, for His mercy endureth for ever; 
 24  And hath delivered us from our adversaries, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 25  Who giveth food to all flesh, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 26  O give thanks unto the God of heaven, for His mercy endureth for ever. 





























