 1  Hallelujah. O give thanks unto the LORD; for He is good; for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 2  Who can express the mighty acts of the LORD, or make all His praise to be heard? 
 3  Happy are they that keep justice, that do righteousness at all times. 
 4  Remember me, O LORD, when Thou favourest Thy people; O think of me at Thy salvation; 
 5  That I may behold the prosperity of Thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of Thy nation, that I may glory with Thine inheritance. 
 6  We have sinned with our fathers, we have done iniquitously, we have dealt wickedly. 
 7  Our fathers in Egypt gave no heed unto Thy wonders; they remembered not the multitude of Thy mercies; but were rebellious at the sea, even at the Red Sea. 
 8  Nevertheless He saved them for His name's sake, that He might make His mighty power to be known. 
 9  And He rebuked the Red Sea, and it was dried up; and He led them through the depths, as through a wilderness. 
 10  And He saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. 
 11  And the waters covered their adversaries; there was not one of them left. 
 12  Then believed they His words; they sang His praise. 
 13  They soon forgot His works; they waited not for His counsel; 
 14  But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tried God in the desert. 
 15  And He gave them their request; but sent leanness into their soul. 
 16  They were jealous also of Moses in the camp, and of Aaron the holy one of the LORD. 
 17  The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram. 
 18  And a fire was kindled in their company; the flame burned up the wicked. 
 19  They made a calf in Horeb, and worshipped a molten image. 
 20  Thus they exchanged their glory for the likeness of an ox that eateth grass. 
 21  They forgot God their saviour, who had done great things in Egypt; 
 22  Wondrous works in the land of Ham, terrible things by the Red Sea. 
 23  Therefore He said that He would destroy them, had not Moses His chosen stood before Him in the breach, to turn back His wrath, lest He should destroy them. 
 24  Moreover, they scorned the desirable land, they believed not His word; 
 25  And they murmured in their tents, they hearkened not unto the voice of the LORD. 
 26  Therefore He swore concerning them, that He would overthrow them in the wilderness; 
 27  And that He would cast out their seed among the nations, and scatter them in the lands. 
 28  They joined themselves also unto Baal of Peor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead. 
 29  Thus they provoked Him with their doings, and the plague broke in upon them. 
 30  Then stood up Phinehas, and wrought judgment, and so the plague was stayed. 
 31  And that was counted unto him for righteousness, unto all generations for ever. 
 32  They angered Him also at the waters of Meribah, and it went ill with Moses because of them; 
 33  For they embittered his spirit, and he spoke rashly with his lips. 
 34  They did not destroy the peoples, as the LORD commanded them; 
 35  But mingled themselves with the nations, and learned their works; 
 36  And they served their idols, which became a snare unto them; 
 37  Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto demons, 
 38  And shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan; and the land was polluted with blood. 
 39  Thus were they defiled with their works, and went astray in their doings. 
 40  Therefore was the wrath of the LORD kindled against His people, and He abhorred His inheritance. 
 41  And He gave them into the hand of the nations; and they that hated them ruled over them. 
 42  Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were subdued under their hand. 
 43  Many times did He deliver them; but they were rebellious in their counsel, and sank low through their iniquity. 
 44  Nevertheless He looked upon their distress, when He heard their cry; 
 45  And He remembered for them His covenant, and repented according to the multitude of His mercies. 
 46  He made them also to be pitied of all those that carried them captive. 
 47  Save us, O LORD our God, and gather us from among the nations, that we may give thanks unto Thy holy name, that we may triumph in Thy praise. 
 48  Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, from everlasting even to everlasting, and let all the people say: 'Amen.' Hallelujah. BOOK V 





























