 1 ¶ A Psalm of Asaph. God, God, the LORD, hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof. 
 2  Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined forth. 
 3  Our God cometh, and doth not keep silence; a fire devoureth before Him, and round about Him it stormeth mightily. 
 4  He calleth to the heavens above, and to the earth, that He may judge His people: 
 5  'Gather My saints together unto Me; those that have made a covenant with Me by sacrifice.' 
 6  And the heavens declare His righteousness; for God, He is judge. Selah 
 7 ¶ 'Hear, O My people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify against thee: God, thy God, am I. 
 8  I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices; and thy burnt-offerings are continually before Me. 
 9  I will take no bullock out of thy house, nor he-goats out of thy folds. 
 10  For every beast of the forest is Mine, and the cattle upon a thousand hills. 
 11  I know all the fowls of the mountains; and the wild beasts of the field are Mine. 
 12  If I were hungry, I would not tell thee; for the world is Mine, and the fulness thereof. 
 13  Do I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats? 
 14  Offer unto God the sacrifice of thanksgiving; and pay thy vows unto the Most High; 
 15  And call upon Me in the day of trouble; I will deliver thee, and thou shalt honour Me.' 
 16 ¶ But unto the wicked God saith: 'What hast thou to do to declare My statutes, and that thou hast taken My covenant in thy mouth? 
 17  Seeing thou hatest instruction, and castest My words behind thee. 
 18  When thou sawest a thief, thou hadst company with him, and with adulterers was thy portion. 
 19  Thou hast let loose thy mouth for evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit. 
 20  Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother; thou slanderest thine own mother's son. 
 21  These things hast thou done, and should I have kept silence? Thou hadst thought that I was altogether such a one as thyself; but I will reprove thee, and set the cause before thine eyes. 
 22  Now consider this, ye that forget God, lest I tear in pieces, and there be none to deliver. 
 23  Whoso offereth the sacrifice of thanksgiving honoureth Me; and to him that ordereth his way aright will I show the salvation of God.' 





























