 1 ¶ 'O give thanks unto the LORD, for He is good, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 2  So let Israel now say, for His mercy endureth for ever, 
 3  So let the house of Aaron now say, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 4  So let them now that fear the LORD say, for His mercy endureth for ever. 
 5  Out of my straits I called upon the LORD; He answered me with great enlargement. 
 6  The LORD is for me; I will not fear; what can man do unto me? 
 7  The LORD is for me as my helper; and I shall gaze upon them that hate me. 
 8  It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in man. 
 9  It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in princes. 
 10  All nations compass me about; verily, in the name of the LORD I will cut them off. 
 11  They compass me about, yea, they compass me about; verily, in the name of the LORD I will cut them off. 
 12  They compass me about like bees; they are quenched as the fire of thorns; verily, in the name of the LORD I will cut them off. 
 13  Thou didst thrust sore at me that I might fall; but the LORD helped me. 
 14  The LORD is my strength and song; and He is become my salvation. 
 15  The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous; the right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly. 
 16  The right hand of the LORD is exalted; the right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly. 
 17  I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the LORD. 
 18  The LORD hath chastened me sore; but He hath not given me over unto death. 
 19 ¶ Open to me the gates of righteousness; I will enter into them, I will give thanks unto the LORD. 
 20  This is the gate of the LORD; the righteous shall enter into it. 
 21  I will give thanks unto Thee, for Thou hast answered me, and art become my salvation. 
 22  The stone which the builders rejected is become the chief corner-stone. 
 23  This is the LORD'S doing; it is marvellous in our eyes. 
 24  This is the day which the LORD hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it. 
 25  We beseech Thee, O LORD, save now! We beseech Thee, O LORD, make us now to prosper! 
 26  Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the LORD; we bless you out of the house of the LORD. 
 27  The LORD is God, and hath given us light; order the festival procession with boughs, even unto the horns of the altar. 
 28  Thou art my God, and I will give thanks unto Thee; Thou art my God, I will exalt Thee. 
 29  O give thanks unto the LORD, for He is good, for His mercy endureth for ever. 





























