 1 ¶ Open thy doors, O Lebanon, that the fire may devour thy cedars. 
 2  Wail, O cypress-tree, for the cedar is fallen; because the glorious ones are spoiled; wail, O ye oaks of Bashan, for the strong forest is come down. 
 3  Hark! the wailing of the shepherds, for their glory is spoiled; Hark! the roaring of young lions, for the thickets of the Jordan are spoiled. 
 4 ¶ Thus said the LORD my God: 'Feed the flock of slaughter; 
 5  whose buyers slay them, and hold themselves not guilty; and they that sell them say: Blessed be the LORD, for I am rich; and their own shepherds pity them not. 
 6  For I will no more pity the inhabitants of the land, saith the LORD; but, lo, I will deliver the men every one into his neighbour's hand, and into the hand of his king; and they shall smite the land, and out of their hand I will not deliver them.' 
 7  So I fed the flock of slaughter, verily the poor of the flock. And I took unto me two staves; the one I called Graciousness, and the other I called Binders; and I fed the flock. 
 8  And I cut off the three shepherds in one month; 'for My soul became impatient of them, and their soul also loathed Me.' 
 9  Then said I: 'I will not feed you; that which dieth, let it die; and that which is to be cut off, let it be cut off; and let them that are left eat every one the flesh of another.' 
 10  And I took my staff Graciousness, and cut it asunder, 'that I might break My covenant which I had made with all the peoples.' 
 11  And it was broken in that day; and the poor of the flock that gave heed unto me knew of a truth that it was the word of the LORD. 
 12  And I said unto them: 'If ye think good, give me my hire; and if not, forbear.' So they weighed for my hire thirty pieces of silver. 
 13  And the LORD said unto me: 'Cast it into the treasury, the goodly price that I was prized at of them.' And I took the thirty pieces of silver, and cast them into the treasury, in the house of the LORD. 
 14  Then I cut asunder mine other staff, even Binders, that the brotherhood between Judah and Israel might be broken. 
 15 ¶ And the LORD said unto me: 'Take unto thee yet the instruments of a foolish shepherd. 
 16  For, lo, I will raise up a shepherd in the land, who will not think of those that are cut off, neither will seek those that are young, nor heal that which is broken; neither will he feed that which standeth still, but he will eat the flesh of the fat, and will break their hoofs in pieces.' 
 17  Woe to the worthless shepherd that leaveth the flock! The sword shall be upon his arm, and upon his right eye; his arm shall be clean dried up, and his right eye shall be utterly darkened. 





























