 1 ¶ And the angel that spoke with me returned, and waked me, as a man that is wakened out of his sleep. 
 2  And he said unto me: 'What seest thou?' And I said: 'I have seen, and behold a candlestick all of gold, with a bowl upon the top of it, and its seven lamps thereon; there are seven pipes, yea, seven, to the lamps, which are upon the top thereof; 
 3  and two olive-trees by it, one upon the right side of the bowl, and the other upon the left side thereof.' 
 4  And I answered and spoke to the angel that spoke with me, saying: 'What are these, my lord?' 
 5  Then the angel that spoke with me answered and said unto me: 'Knowest thou not what these are?' And I said: 'No, my lord.' 
 6  Then he answered and spoke unto me, saying: 'This is the word of the LORD unto Zerubbabel, saying: Not by might, nor by power, but by My spirit, saith the LORD of hosts. 
 7  Who art thou, O great mountain before Zerubbabel? thou shalt become a plain; and he shall bring forth the top stone with shoutings of Grace, grace, unto it.' 
 8  Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying: 
 9  'The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house; his hands shall also finish it; and thou shalt know that the LORD of hosts hath sent me unto you. 
 10  For who hath despised the day of small things? even they shall see with joy the plummet in the hand of Zerubbabel, even these seven, which are the eyes of the LORD, that run to and fro through the whole earth.' 
 11 ¶ Then answered I, and said unto him: 'What are these two olive-trees upon the right side of the candlestick and upon the left side thereof?' 
 12  And I answered the second time, and said unto him: 'What are these two olive branches, which are beside the two golden spouts, that empty the golden oil out of themselves?' 
 13  And he answered me and said: 'Knowest thou not what these are?' And I said: 'No, my lord.' 
 14  Then said he: 'These are the two anointed ones, that stand by the Lord of the whole earth.' 





























